

===== PAGE 1 =====

TRISK - A Climate Stress Test for Transition Risk ∗
Moritz Baer 1,3, Ben Caldecott 1,2, Jacob Kastl 3, Alissa M. Kleinnjienhuis 4, and Nicola
Ranger1,2
1Smith School of Enterprise and the Environment, University of Oxford
2UK Centre for Greening Finance and Investment
32°Investing Initiative
4Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research and Institute for New Economic
Thinking at University of Oxford
February 2022
Abstract
Climate change has the potential to impact the stability of the financial system. We
develop a climate stress test that translates climate transition risks affecting individual
firms and economies to shocks affecting the financial system. As part of this, we present a
forward-looking risk measure - TRISK - which is the expected loss of a financial institution
given the uncertain materialisation of a transition stress scenario. The approach is rooted in
asset-level data and represents transition impacts on the level of the firm in a microeconomic
and financial model. Key distinct features of the climate stress test are its forward-looking
nature based on the transition strategy of firms, the explicit representation of technological
costs and firms’ comparative advantage, the transparency and flexibility to accommodate for
a wide range of scenarios and underlying modelling choices, and the ability to demonstrate
sensitivities in all modelling stages. We perform an exploratory analysis to a selection of
international power firms. We find that transition impacts entail significant heterogeneity
across firms and the financial sector with clear distributional consequences. This highlights
the need for bottom-up stress tests able to reflect the complexity of the transition impact
to inform financial markets as well as financial policy design.
∗The views expressed in this paper do not necessarily reflect the views of Oxford Sustainable Finance Group,
the Environmental Stress Testing and Scenarios Programme (ESTS) or 2 °Investing Initiative (2DII). The au-
thors would like to thank Gireesh Shrimali, XY for helpful comments. The computational tool and code
of the TRISK methodology can be found open source on github: https://github.com/2DegreesInvesting/
r2dii.climate.stress.test. The code infrastructure is hosted and maintained by 2 °Investing Initiative.
The authors acknowledge funding from the European Union’s Life NGO program under Grant No LIFE20
NGO/SGA/DE/200040. The paper reflects only the authors’ view and that the Agency and the Commission are
not responsible. Corresponding author: moritz.baer@smithschool.ox.ac.uk
1

===== PAGE 2 =====

Contents
1 Introduction 3
2 Climate Stress Testing Model Framework 7
2.1 Layer One: Scenarios . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2.1.1 Scenario Parameters and Calibration Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
2.1.2 Design of Baseline and Stress Scenarios . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
2.2 Layer Two: The Economy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
2.2.1 Firm Value under Different Scenarios . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
2.2.2 Stranded Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
2.2.3 Firm Calibration Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
2.3 Layer Three: The Financial System . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
2.3.1 Financial Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
2.3.2 Expected Financial Loss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
2.3.3 TRISK . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25
2.3.4 Financial Exposure Calibration Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27
2.4 Model Limitations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
3 Results of Exploratory Application 31
3.1 Impact on Firms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
3.2 Impact on Financial Institutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40
4 Treatment of Uncertainty and Sensitivity Analysis 42
4.1 Extrinsic Uncertainty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
4.2 Intrinsic Uncertainty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
4.3 Sensitivity Analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
5 Conclusion 50
A Appendix 58
A.1 Model Parameter Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
A.2 Data and additional analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 60
2

===== PAGE 3 =====

1 Introduction
The impact of climate risks on financial stability are increasingly recognised by governments, in-
vestors, central banks and financial regulators. The Network for Greening the Financial System
aims to support best practices and contribute to building a climate-resilient financial system
(NGFS, 2019). Believes around the materiality of climate risks have begun to shape financial
decision making and risk management practices (Bolton & Kacperczyk, 2021; Krueger, Sautner,
& Starks, 2020). Further, expectations on how financial institutions and banks should scale up
capabilities and manage climate-related risks have been set by the Bank of England (PRA, 2019)
and the European Central Bank (ECB, 2020) and proposed guidelines scale up internationally
across supervisory institutions (see e.g. MAS (2020)).
Depending on institutional responsibilities, actors have engaged in either steering financial
capital, adjusting fiscal measures to support the net-zero transition or in analysing climate-
related financial risk. Governments have predominantly focused policy efforts on redirecting
financial capital towards sustainable investments and align economic activities with climate
objectives set out in the Paris Agreement (EU HLEG, 2018; European Commission, 2018;
Ripple, Wolf, Newsome, Barnard, & Moomaw, 2020). The recent COVID-crisis underlines the
importance of such climate policies to allow for a sustainable recovery (Hallegatte & Hammer,
2020; Hepburn, O’Callaghan, Stern, & Zenghelis, 2020). Central banks and supervisors have
prominently focused on the risk dimension of climate change. To this end, they are assessing
prudential and financial policy measures that are targeted to safeguard financial stability. A
key focus has been on informational policies such as climate-related disclosures and setting
of supervisory expectations, which have signaling effects and enhance the transparency around
accountability of financial institutions (Baer, Campiglio, & Deyris, 2021). In particular, climate
stress testing and scenario analysis has emerged as a key analytical tool, used by a vast array
of stakeholders (BIS, 2021a).
While such developments are promising, decisive climate action in the financial sector is still
absent. Political and mandate-related challenges prevent interventionist financial policies and
regulation in support of the net-zero transition (Baer et al., 2021). Moreover, investors and
central banks are faced with analytical obstacles in risk management practices to adequately
measure the impact of climate risks (Giglio, Kelly, & Stroebel, 2020). Current climate stress
tests are in their infancy from a methodological standpoint and are therefore only exploratory
in nature (see e.g. (ECB, 2021; of England, 2021). Most importantly, challenges remain to
adequately capture the heterogeneity involved in transition risks. So far, this has prevented the
effective distinction of transitioning firms and climate laggards in scenario analysis. For instance,
climate stress tests that have employed an industry level-approach or top down-macroeconomic
approach, insufficiently capture within sector variation (Battiston & Monasterolo, 2021; Ver-
meulen et al., 2019). While some climate stress testing approaches have been employed on a
3

===== PAGE 4 =====

granular level, these approaches are limited in capturing the forward-looking transition strate-
gies of firms (Cormack, Donovan, Koberle, & Ostrovnaya, 2020; ECB, 2021; Reinders, Schoen-
maker, & Van Dijk, 2020), focus on policy driven transition risks only (Nguyen, Diaz-Rainey,
Kuruppuarachchi, McCarten, & Tan, 2020) or lack the representation of demand-driven ef-
fects and technological change Bressan, Duranovic, Monasterolo, and Battiston (2022). Other
approaches, such as the CRISK measure by (Jung, Engle, & Berner, 2021), rely on more market-
based approaches that identify correlations between a stranded asset portfolio and the largest
global banks’ stock market valuations. This is only a sufficient metric to evaluate a firm’s tran-
sition risk, to the extent that transition risk is priced into financial markets today. There is
ample reason to believe that this is not yet done to a full extent.
Most importantly, these approaches rely mostly on current and backward-looking carbon
emission intensities as a proxy for transition risk. We argue that disclosing carbon emissions
is not a sufficient metric for investors and regulators to determine a firm’s transition risk and
alignment with the Paris goals. Importantly, two firms with exactly the same current emissions
today could face widely disparate transition risk. If firm A is an oil major that is planning
to keep investing in oil fields, and firm B is another one planning to transition to a business
model based on solar farms, then firm B will presumably face much lower transition risk. The
reason is that it will not be subject to a carbon tax, demand driven effects or phase-out policies,
for instance. Transition risk proxied by current emissions will not capture this. There is an-
other fundamental problem with failure to distinguish transitioning firms from climate laggards
within the same industry due to disclosure of similar current carbon emissions. Firms belonging
to high-carbon-emission sectors today, such as the energy sector, will need to receive plenty of
funding at a low cost of capital in order to finance the transition to a green energy economy
while expand world energy capacity. If investors, including central banks, divest from firms in
high-carbon industries, based on their disclosure of currently high carbon emissions, as is the
custom now among many investors (Bolton & Kacperczyk, 2021) and under consideration in
central bank circles (NGFS, 2021), then these sectors are drained of the financing needed to
transition. From a market perspective, accurately capturing the heterogeneity of the transi-
tion impact between climate laggards and transitioning firms is highly relevant. This informs
effective capital allocation and accelerates the transition, rather than hindering it. Investors
should divest only from those firms that do not plan to transition to a greener business model,
thereby driving up the cost of capital for climate laggards but keeping the cost of capital low for
greening firms. From a regulatory perspective, to increase the resilience of financial institution
and safeguard financial stability in the transition, climate stress tests need to identify exactly
where the risk lies and how concentrated it is.
Identified approaches fall short of capturing forward-looking strategies of firms and lack
the granularity to capture the relevant heterogeneity involved in transition risk. In addition,
4

===== PAGE 5 =====

current approaches are limited in accommodating for a wide range of scenarios and underlying
modelling choices to better represent prevailing uncertainties and the ability to assess sensi-
tivities in all modelling stages. Existing climate stress test approaches developed by central
banks and academics go a long way in solving analytical challenges around longer time hori-
zons of climate change. Yet, such regulatory exercises most often leave significant discretion
to supervised institutions in adjusting their own risk models and hence lack the transparency
and consistency to compare and validate risk outcomes (BoE, 2020). This bears the risk of
biased scenario selection and design choices that lead to support existing strategies of financial
institutions and solely to fulfill supervisory expectations without an appropriate risk assessment.
We are therefore in need of forward-looking, transparent, innovative and flexible climate
stress testing approaches. This would allow to overcome some of the analytical challenges
involved in assessing climate transition risk, while adequately reflecting uncertainties and sen-
sitivities. We contribute with such a model framework. The multi-layered stress test represents
individual firms’ asset values under different scenarios. The transition risk is represented by
a set of climate-adjusted economic parameters, designed and curated in a set of severe but
plausible transition scenarios. The financial system is represented by heterogeneous financial
institutions and their balance sheets. Each of these layers is connected through a set of trans-
mission channels, which propagates the climate-adjusted economic impact to the asset value of
firms and subsequently translates the impact into financial risk.
We also present a forward-looking risk measure - TRISK - which is the expected loss of a
financial institution given the uncertain materialisation of a transition stress scenario. It is our
view, that classic risk management practices and risk metrics are inadequate to assess transition
risk1. We present TRISK on two levels. On the firm level, TRISK is expressed as the difference
in the discounted net present value (NPV), as well as the probability of default (PD) for a firm
under a baseline and transition stress scenario. On the financial level, TRISK is expressed as
the difference in the expected loss (EL) of a portfolio under a baseline and stress scenario, hence
represent the value at risk from the uncertain materialisation of a transition stress scenario.
Key distinctive analytical features of our approach include the calibration in asset-level data
and representation of the transition risk on the firm-level, representation of the strategic be-
havior of firms, the explicit representation of technological costs and associated comparative
advantages of firms. It allows for the integration of a wide range of scenarios, a balance between
carbon tax and demand impacts, as well as flexible parametrisation to better represent prevail-
ing uncertainties and the ability to demonstrate sensitivities.The aim is to better understand
how much confidence is present in the calibration of such approaches with data and how to use
1They pose unrealistic assumptions on a highly non-linear problem with a non-stationary distribution (Bolton,
Despres, Pereira da Silva, Samama, & Svartzman, 2020). It is our view that transition risk will only be priced in
so far as investors have developed forward-looking measures of transition risk of firms.
5

===== PAGE 6 =====

it most effectively.
To showcase an initial application of the climate stress test, we analyse the transition risk
for a set of international public power firms and its financial impacts. This exploratory exercise
is intended to present a proof of concept of the unique features, modelling choices and the range
of possible analyses of the proposed framework. We highlight two key findings that strengthen
our argument for the need of innovative approaches that are forward-looking and capture the
heterogeneity involved in the transition. First, we find that transition impacts entail signif-
icant heterogeneity across individual firms and the financial sector with clear distributional
consequences. Second, we identify a significant variance of transition impacts - TRSIK - across
different scenario narratives and model parameters, highlighting the elevated levels of variability
and uncertainty of such approaches.
The paper is structured as follows. Section 2 outlines the climate stress testing framework,
discusses calibration strategies and the model limitations. Section 3 presents the results of the
empirical application. Section 4 discusses the sources of uncertainty arising across the layers of
the climate stress tests and presents the sensitivity analysis and mitigation strategy. Section 5
concludes and discusses avenues for future research, as well as the practical application of the
approach for stakeholders.
6

===== PAGE 7 =====

2 Climate Stress Testing Model Framework
The asset-level climate stress test (ACST) 2 consists of three interlinked layers. The first layer
’Scenarios’ describes the source of transition risk, represented by a set of climate-adjusted
economic parameters, designed and curated in a set of severe but plausible transition scenarios.
The second layer ’The Economy’ describes the real economy, as well as individual firms’ asset
values under different scenarios. It represents a firm by its physical economic assets and the
associated ownership structure. The third layer ’The Financial System’ describes the financial
system, represented by heterogeneous financial institutions and their balance sheets. Each of
these layers is connected through a set of transmission channels, which propagates the climate-
adjusted economic impact to the asset value of firms and subsequently translates the impact
into financial risk. Refer to figure 1 for a stylistic overview of the model transmission channels.
Figure 1: Representation of the key model layers, stylised overview of the climate stress testing
framework and its transmission channels.
In the model, transition scenarios feature decarbonisation pathways, policy-induced carbon
taxes and technological change affecting the unit cost of technologies (e.g. solar, oil extraction or
electricity generated from coal-fired power plants). The climate-adjusted economic parameters
affect the physical production of firms, induce additional costs and shifts market shares according
to the alignment of firms and emission intensities of their physical assets. This alters the firms
cost structure and production mix across technologies and business units and impacts their
income and profitability. In addition, a firm will be faced with stranded assets, i.e. a share of
firms’ production that is incompatible with constrained carbon budget. Firm impacts’ are then
translated into equity valuation changes, through a discounted dividend flow model. Using an
time-horizon adjusted Merton credit risk framework equity impacts are subsequently translated
into changes in the probability of default. On the financial level, TRISK is then expressed as
2For simplification, the terms ACST and TRISK model will be used interchangeably
7

===== PAGE 8 =====

the difference in the expected loss (EL) of a portfolio under a baseline and stress scenario, hence
represent the value at risk from the uncertain materialisation of a transition stress scenario.
In this section, we present in detail the modelling choices and underlying assumptions. We
further discuss current model limitations in Section 2.4. Note that the model is described in a
data-agnostic fashion, highlighting its flexibility to be adjusted to different needs (e.g. different
sectors, such as automotive, power, fossil fuel extraction) and on varying levels of granularity
(e.g. financial counterparty level).
2.1 Layer One: Scenarios
We represent the set of transition scenarios by a set of climate-adjusted economic parame-
ters with geographical differentiation to account for institutional and regulatory heterogeneity
across economic systems. This allows to capture the different capabilities and responsibilities
of individual countries in climate change mitigation.
2.1.1 Scenario Parameters and Calibration Strategy
The set of climate-adjusted economic parameters includes decarbonisation pathways, unit cost
projections and carbon tax pathways, reflecting different climate policy scenarios, demand shifts
and technological change in energy and industrial systems. The scenario parameters are exoge-
nous and depict various socio-economic and climatological assumptions that are generated across
a variety of climate-economic models with underlying differences in modelling choices and gran-
ularity. The approach used in this paper is scenario-agnostic and can be applied with a variety
of scenarios ranging from the Network for Greening the Financial System (NGFS, 2020) to the
International Energy Agency (IEA, 2020). The level of granularity that can be adopted in a our
model will largely depend on the granularity of the scenario data on which the stress scenario
can be calibrated.
More specifically, the set of transition scenarios S is defined as S = {s1, ..., sN }, where
si denotes the applied scenario and N are the total number of scenarios. Each scenario s
consists of the specification of three matrices of climate-adjusted variables over time: (1) pro-
duction Ps ∈ R|Y|×|H|×|T | ; (2) technology unit costs cs ∈ R|Y|×|H|×|G|×|T | ; and (3) carbon taxes
ψs ∈ R|G|×|T |. The elements in these respective matrices are P s,t
yhg, cs,t
yhg, and ψs,t
g . Here Y is the
set of sectors, H is the set of technologies, G is the set of regions and T is the set of time. In
what follows, we explain these scenario parameters in greater detail. We also briefly describe
the calibration strategy and data inputs.
Production Decarbonisation Pathways. P s,t
yhg denotes the production levels in sector y ∈ Y
of production technology h ∈ H, in region g ∈ G , across scenario s ∈ S . The production compo-
sition across scenario s in time t reflects the required transformation of a sector y to meet the
net-zero targets. For instance, to transform the global energy sector, the IEA projects the phase
8

===== PAGE 9 =====

out of electricity production from fossil-fuel-related technologies, while scaling up renewable en-
ergy to meet increasing demand. Most of the scenarios are designed on the global, regional and,
more importantly, sectoral and technological level. Hence, these inputs do not provide for the
required level of granularity to perform an asset- and firm-level approach. To capture the het-
erogeneity of risks associated with the transition for individual balance sheet compositions and
firms themselves, we need to adjust the regional production pathways P s,t
yhg into firm transition
pathways. This is one of the distinctive key features of our approach that gives an unprece-
dented level of granularity through the integration of asset level information gathered through
earth observation, satellite imagery and remote sensing that provide a comprehensive picture
of the geolocation, characteristics and capacity of physical assets and infrastructure (OxSFP,
2018) as well as the ownership structure to firms in climate-critical sectors. We rely on data
from the provider Asset Resolution (AR) 3.
We calibrate our model and represent the balance sheet of firm i ∈ C through its unique
composition of individual physical production assets a ∈ A across business units 4 and tech-
nologies h, where C and A is the set of climate-critical firms and assets. More specifically, we
obtain a firm i’s production P s,t
i by summing over the asset production P s,t
yhga across each sector
y and technologies h across its ownership of assetsa, i.e. P s,t
i = P
g∈G
P
y∈Y
P
h∈H
P
a∈A P s,t
igyha.
Additionally, we then obtain the market share ηt
iyha of asset a of firm i in sector y and
technology h in region g at time t, which is given by its asset production P t
iyhga relative to the
total production P t
yh in sector y and and technology h in region g at time t; i.e.,
ηt
iyha =
P t
iyha
P t
yh
. (1)
The market share ηt
iyha of asset a of firm i is typically defined based on current data, but
could in principle be defined based on the market share at a future time t projected under a
given scenario s. Therefore, the market share ηs,t
iyha could be given a superscript s.
Obtaining the firm i’s asset market share ηt
iyha allows us to derive the firms responsibility
in implementing the requisite change in the absolute production levels in scenario s to achieve
a certain decarbonisation climate target. For instance, according to a Paris-aligned scenario,
electricity generated from coal will slowly be phased out according to government commitments
and the cost-disadvantage due to the replacement of renewable power generation. We then
assume that a firm that owns a coal-fired power plant will contribute to such a decarbonisation
by decreasing its production according to its market share. An asset with higher capacities and
3https://asset-resolution.com
4For simplicity, in this paper, we use the terms technology and business unit interchangeably. In the power
and automotive sector, a firm has its production composition across technologies such as electricity generation
from solar or electric vehicles. However, for fossil fuel companies that extract oil and gas, strictly, these are not
technologies, henceforth these are better described as business units
9

===== PAGE 10 =====

production will therefore be required to reduce production levels to a greater absolute extent. A
firm that has both, production assets in oil extraction and power plants that produce electricity
from solar, will need to adjust its respective production levels in oil extraction (downwards)
and solar power (upwards) depending on the location of the plants and applicability of regional
targets that are consistent with climate objectives. More formally, the requisite production level
change ∆ P s,t
iyha by asset a of firm i is given by its asset-specific market share ηt
iyha times the
change in production levels P s,t
yh specificed in scenario s, i.e.
∆P s,t
iyha = ηt
iyha∆P s,t
yh , (2)
where the change in production in region g in technology h under scenario s is defined as
∆P s,t
yh = P s,t
yh − P s,t−1
yh .5 Firms i’s overall market share across technologies and sectors at a given
time t is ultimately a composition of its market shares ηt
iyha of asset a at time t. Importantly,
it can be seen from equation 2 that a firm with a smaller market share across its assets in
sustainable technologies today will be at greater transition risk tomorrow if its high-carbon
technologies are subject to a phase-out according to the requisite scenarios production levels
P s,t
yh . Further, from equation 1, it is clear that ηt
iyha is time-varying and could be made depen-
dent on the firms’ own production plans as observed in the data.
A unique feature of the AR data is that it contains information on the 5-year production
plan of firms. This allows us to represent a forward-looking dimension that depends on the
transition plan of firm i, stipulating how it might reduce and shift its production composition
towards sustainable technologies. Firms that do so will then see their production levels and
associated carbon emissions fall, and will be less vulnerable to a carbon tax, a demand change,
policy-induced phase-out, or other climate policies that could harm their profits. AR captures
asset-level information for climate-critical sectors, i.e. oil, gas and coal extraction, power, steel,
cement, aviation, shipping and car manufacturing, that account for nearly 80% of global carbon
emissions. The graphs below show the production plans for an illustrative selection of energy
firms across its business units and technologies, as well as the associated emission levels.
The ACST framework was designed in a way to leverage off such forward looking production
plan information 6. This allows to model the strategic direction that firms in climate-critical
sectors are moving towards and integrate such information in the construction of the baseline
scenario (see section 2.1.2). This is a key distinctive feature of the proposed approach. Relying
on production plans of firms highlights a crucial advantage compared to other stress testing
frameworks. Most models are calibrated using the historical carbon emission of a firm or sector
as a proxy to derive the climate-economic transition impact. This stems from the fact that a
5Henceforth, the ∆ of a variable is always defined as the difference between a variable at time t and t − 1.
6Alternatively, information on CAPEX plans and or investments across technologies h of firm i could be
gathered to project production plans
10

===== PAGE 11 =====

Figure 2: Historical and forward-looking production plans across business units for a repre-
sentative energy firm, as well as associated total carbon emissions from 2013-2026. Data based
on Asset Resolution. Fossil fuel extraction in Giga Joule (GJ), emissions in 1e 8 tonnes of CO 2
Figure 3: Historical and forward-looking production plans across business units for a repre-
sentative energy firm, as well as associated total carbon emissions from 2013-2026. Data based
on Asset Resolution. Fossil fuel extraction in Giga Joule (GJ), emissions in 1e 8 tonnes of CO 2
consensus seems to have emerged that institutions and firms should be mandated to disclose
their Scope I, II and potentially Scope III emissions, as a proxy for their transition risk and a
barometer for their alignment with the Paris goals. Contrary to the emerging consensus, we
argue that historical carbon emissions are not a sufficient metric to determine a firm’s transition
risk. Importantly, two firms with exactly the same current emissions today could face widely
disparate transition risk depending on their strategic operational decisions and investments
across technologies. However, we do recognise the importance of explicit carbon budgets and
emissions in our model, therefore other transmission channels in our model capture the impact
of an explicit policy-induced carbon tax on firms’ cost structure.
Carbon tax. Another parameter in the set of transitions scenarios is the carbon tax ψs,t
g in
dollars per ton of C0 2 emitted resulting from a unit of production in region g under scenario
11

===== PAGE 12 =====

s at time t.7 Depending on policy and regulatory changes across regions and jurisdictions,
governments are well positioned to tackle the market failure around climate change and carbon
externalises through direct pricing mechanisms in the economy (Nordhaus, 2007, 2017). De-
pending on the envisioned speed of the structural transformation towards a net-zero economy,
carbon price regimes may be enacted very differently, also depending on geopolitical, economic
and trade-related strategies across jurisdictions. Such a carbon tax will directly affect the cost
structure of firms in climate-critical sectors and create incentives to change production compo-
sition across competing firms. We allow in the model to integrate a regional- or country-specific
carbon tax pathway that is given exogenous by scenario providers. Figure 4 illustrates various
global carbon tax trajectories from the NGFS under different transition scenarios s.
Figure 4: Climate policy scenarios s corresponding to different carbon tax paths ψs,t
g over the
period t = 2020 , ...,2050. The scenarios are consistent with those formulated by the (NGFS,
2020).
Unit cost projections. The projected path of decarbonisation of the economy, is driven by
assumptions and models of technological cost advancements. This is reflected through cs,t
yhg,
which is the unit cost of production in sector y, across technologies h, in region g, in scenario
s at time t. Most often, cost pathways are modelled in integrated assessment models (IAMs)
or by academics such as as Way, Ives, Mealy, and Farmer (2021) who use historical trends
in production costs to forecast future trends. For instance, the costs of many sustainable
technologies, such as producing solar power, have fallen exponentially over the last decades
in line with Moore’s and Wright’s law. The costs of extracting oil from the ground has not
experienced exponential decay, but rather stayed relatively constant ((Way et al., 2021)). Future
trends of production costs is an integral part of the transition scenario, as it reflects the likely
diffusion and comparative advantage across a range of high-carbon and sustainable technologies.
7If a global carbon tax is applied, the carbon tax will be the same across all regions.
12

===== PAGE 13 =====

Unit cost developments may be significantly different under various climate mitigation and
policy scenarios. Information on time-variant, regional different and scenario-specific unit costs
is a critical information in the set of scenario parameters that underlie our climate stress testing
approach. This will impact the comparative advantage and unit cost structure of firms in our
model. Figure 5 shows an illustrative selection of cost projections across scenarios that are
suitable to calibrate the ACST.
Figure 5: Projection of the Levelised Cost of Electricity (LCOE) by technology and scenario
for the IEA Sustainable Development Scenario (SDS) (IEA, 2020) and Oxford scenarios (Way
et al., 2021). Oxford no transition refers to a counterfactual scenarios where the technological
improvement is frozen to current levels.
The scenario parameters form the basis for the transition scenario that is required to perform
the ACST put forward in this paper. We aim to describe the relevant segments of a transition
risk as agnostic as possible, acknowledging that a wide range of scenarios exist in the academic
and non-academic sphere, with varying degrees of granularity, specificity and transparency
around underlying assumptions. The level of granularity achieved in the ACST also varies
with the granularity of scenario inputs. Note that different scenarios can be integrated in a
complementary fashion as long as the scenario narrative and assumptions are largely consistent.
Moreover, as shown in (Gasparini, Baer, & Ives, 2022), the ACST can also serve the purpose of
comparing and constructing several benchmark scenarios to assess the fundamental differences
in assumptions and compare different stress test outcomes based on the scenario narrative. This
can be valuable to better understand the uncertainties and sensitivities around scenarios and
consistently apply these in one modelling framework. To this end, the ACST can serve as a new
methodological approach to combine several scenarios to construct robust net zero benchmarks
and to assess transition plans and the impact on the financial system. The framework proposed
here is also consistent with emerging consensus around the need for clear scenario principles
to assess the robustness of individual climate scenarios (Fankhauser et al., 2022). Note that,
further advancements around the granularity of scenarios are urgently needed. For instance,
global and regional scenarios from the NGFS and other providers, are underpinned by high-
13

===== PAGE 14 =====

level assumptions on the global or regional level, rendering those narratives of limited use for
country-specific analyses that are influenced by government commitments, as well as specific
legal and economic contexts.
14

===== PAGE 15 =====

2.1.2 Design of Baseline and Stress Scenarios
In order to construct a set of suitable scenarios, we need to calibrate scenario parameters and
curate a baseline scenario and a set of stress scenarios. This process is flexible and can be
adjusted to various forms of different scenario narratives, depending on the scope of the stress
testing exercise. We propose the following way forward to reflect the transition risk in the model.
Baseline Scenario. We construct the baseline scenario s2 = {baseline} for each firm i in a
way that reflects the production plans. Firms are expected to follow their planned production
across technologies and sectors P s,t
iyh over the period t = {2020, ...,2025}. After that, the firm
i follows the respective production change ∆ P s,t
iyh prescribed in a business as usual scenario
for the remainder of the stress testing horizon ( t = {2025, ...,2040}), where ∆ P s,t
yha is obtained
from the current policy scenario ’CPS’ by the (IEA, 2020). The CPS reflects a baseline picture
of how the global economy would evolve if governments and firms made no changes to their
existing policies and announced forward-looking plans. Further, the firm i will be faced with
scenario-consistent unit cost developments cs,t
yhg by the (IEA, 2020) and carbon tax trajectories
ψs,t
g from the ’no transition’ scenario by the (NGFS, 2020). The resulting scenario s1 = baseline
reflects a narrative of firms producing according to their strategic plans, irrespective and with
no foresight to the materialisation of transition risks other than already reflected in their firms
production plans.
Target and Stress Scenario. In order to construct a stress scenario, we need to first define
a scenario s2 = {target} that is aligned with future climate targets. We choose the ’Sustain-
able Development Scenario” (SDS) by the (IEA, 2020). This scenario prescribes the requisite
production changes across sectors and technologies ∆ P s,t
yh that are needed to transform the
economy, comply with carbon budgets and achieve a Paris-aligned climate target of below 2 °.
Figure 6 illustrates for a set of firms in the power sector, the SDS target scenario across tech-
nologies. The scenario s3 = {stress}, or late and sudden scenario, is then constructed in the
following way. Firm i continues to produce according to the scenario s1 = {baseline} until the
introduction of “climate action” shock year Z in the set of Z = {Z2025, ..., Z2035}.8 This shifts
the production of firm i across sector y and technology h onto a Paris-aligned path, to comply
with the climate targets and carbon budgets set out in scenario s2 = {target}, while overcom-
pensating for previous misalignment. Note that in the stress scenario the required production
change ∆ P stress,t
iyh for firm i is greater than the production change prescribed in the scenario
s2 = {target}, i.e. ∆ P stress,t
iyh > ∆P target,t
iyh for the period t = {2030, ...,2040} (see Figure 6
for a visual representation of this mechanism). This is intuitive, as firms need to decarbonise
their production more steeply, following a potential misalignment prior to the shock year Z.
It follows that Z defines the degree to which a transition is considered ’disorderly’, i.e. the
8Note that the shock year can be varied for sensitivity purposes to reflect varying degrees of a disorderly
transition
15

===== PAGE 16 =====

later transition policies are implemented, the longer firms in climate-critical sectors remain mis-
aligned with the target scenario, and the steeper a potential adjustment in production levels.
The climate action in our model is not restricted to being dependent on strong government
intervention, but that transition can also be driven by firms’ strategic decisions. The model
allows for the implementation of a wide range of different scenario providers, to accommodate
for the various needs of different risk management exercises.
Figure 6: Stress Scenario. The graphs depict the constructed firm-specific target and stress
scenario for a set of power firms. The scenarios2 = {target} reflects the IEA SDS that shows the
required global change across high- and low-carbon technologies to meet the final energy demand
by the global economy, while achieving the temperature goal set out in the Paris Agreement
(below 2°Degrees). The scenario s3 = {stress} assumes that firms remain on their business as
usual production trajectories as outlined in the Asset Resolution production plan data until a
shock in 2030, that requires firm to shift production to meet the SDS while overcompensating
for previous misalignment.
Further, the firms in F will be faced with scenario-consistent unit cost developments cs,t
yhg
by the (IEA, 2020) and carbon tax trajectories ψs,t
g from the ’disorderly transition’ scenario
by the (NGFS, 2020). The resulting scenario s3 = {stress} reflects a narrative of a disruptive
unanticipated production phase-out across technologies, decreased unit cost projections due to
technological change and the sudden implementation of an increasing carbon tax. See table 1
for a summary of a representative scenario construction.
16

===== PAGE 17 =====

Table 1: Illustrative Scenario Construction
Baseline Scenario
• Ps,t
iyhover the periodt ={2020, ...,2025} calibrated on production plans of firmi from AR
and ∆Ps,t
iyhobtained from the current policy scenario ’CPS’ by the (IEA, 2020)
for the remainder of the stress testing horizon (t ={2025, ...,2040})
• unit cost developmentscs,t
yhg by the (IEA, 2020)
• carbon tax trajectoriesψs,tg from the ’no transition’ scenario by the (NGFS, 2020)
Stress Scenario
• s1 ={baseline} until the introduction of “climate action” in shock yearZ2030
• fromt ={2030, ...,2040} ∆Pstress,t
iyh derived froms2 ={target}
• unit cost developmentscs,t
yhg by the (IEA, 2020)
• carbon tax trajectoriesψs,tg from the ’disorderly transition’ scenario by the (NGFS, 2020)
For a more detailed discussion on the construction of the scenarios and baseline settings of
our exploratory analysis, please refer to section 3. In the next section, we outline how we model
the different asset values of firm i under the baseline and shock scenario.
17

===== PAGE 18 =====

2.2 Layer Two: The Economy
In order to understand the propagation from the transition risk scenario s to the real economy
and the formal transmission channels, we need to introduce the heart of the ACST. That is a
microeconomic framework to model the asset value and profitability of climate critical firms in
the real economy based on their physical asset production infrastructure.
2.2.1 Firm Value under Different Scenarios
We represent the real economy as a set of heterogeneous firms i across sectors y ∈ Y . Each firm
i has a unique balance sheet that is composed of assets As,t
i and liabilities Ls,t
i , where the firm
asset value is given by the value of its stock of physical assets. We model the balance sheet
of firm i across its corresponding ownership tree and subsidiaries. We assume that a parent
companies production levels P s,t
igyha are aggregated relative to the parent company’s equity stake
in its subsidiary (see Figure 17 for an illustration).
Figure 7: Illustrative example of asset-based activity aggregation in ownership tree of firms
in climate stress testing framework. Note, that this has important risk implications, as the
transition impact on production is modelled on the level of individual physical assets.
Importantly, each firms’ asset value As,t
i at time t in scenario s is given by the sum of the
values of its physical assets As,t
i,a across its ownership structure and subsidiaries, i.e.
As,t
i =
X
a∈A
As,t
ia (3)
where the value of physical production assets As,t
ia at time t in scenario s is given by the
discounted sum of the profit generated by the asset a, i.e.
As,t
ia =
X
t∈T
exp−ρj (t−T ) Et[πs,t
i,a] + Ωs,T
iar , (4)
18

===== PAGE 19 =====

where Et[πs,t
i,a] gives the assets’ expected profits in scenario s at time t. Future profits are
discounted at the firm-specific risk premium ρj that is given by
ρi = ρf + βiE[RM], (5)
where ρf is the risk-free rate. βj represents the covariance between the firm return Rt
i and the
market return Rt
M over the variance of the firm return, i.e.,
βi = cov(RM , Ri)
var(RM) , (6)
where Ri, RM ∈ N1×|T |. E[RM] is the expected market return, which is also referred to as risk
premium. We assume that after the time horizon of the stress test, future profits remain in a
normalized state forever, given by the terminal value (perceptual growth) Ω s,T
iar , i.e.,
Ωs,T
iar = πs,T
ia (1 + r)
ρi − r , (7)
where r is the long-term growth rate. The resulting expected profit of firm i can be estimated
as the average profits over M Monte Carlo (MC) runs, i.e.
Et[πs,t
ia ] ≈ 1
M
MX
m=1
πs,m,t
ia , (8)
where πs,m,t
ia represent the realized profits of asset a of firm i in MC run m in scenario s at time
t. For simplicity, we assume that the profit in each MC run m is the same 9. Hence, the asset
value As,t
i of firm i represents the sum of the net present values As,t
ia of its assets a derived from
a discounted cash flow model.
The profits πs,t
ia of firm i’s asset a at time t are given by its revenues Rs,t
ia minus its costs
Cs,t
ia , i.e.
πs,t
ia = Rs,t
ia − Cs,t
ia , (9)
where the revenue Rs,t
ia of firm i’s asset a is given by its production P s,t
iyha times the price
ps,t
yh, i.e.
Rs,t
j =
X
y∈Y
X
h∈H
P s,t
iyh((ps,t
yh + ωyθs,t
jyh), (10)
and the cost structure of firm i’s asset a is represented, i.e.
Cs,t
ia =
X
y∈Y
X
h∈H
P s,t
iyha(cs,t
iyha + (1 − ωy)θs,t
jyha) (11)
9hence we omit the m superscript going forward
19

===== PAGE 20 =====

and ωy ∈ [0, 1] represents the elasticity of sector y to pass through the carbon tax and avoid
additional costs. θs,t
jyha represents the carbon tax in dollars, if any, per unit of production in
industry y and technology h at time v applicable in scenario s to firm i’ asset a. It is given by
θs,t
jyha = ϵs
jyha ψs,t
iyha. (12)
Here ϵs
jyha denotes the tons of C02 firm i’s asset a emits per unit of production in {y, h} at time
t. In other words, it is the emission intensity on the asset-level. ψs,t
jyha denotes the carbon tax
in dollars per ton of C0 2 emitted applicable in year t under scenario s. From equation 10 and
equation 11 it becomes clear that the profit margin νt
j of asset a of firm i is time-varying and
dependent on the unit cost and price differentials across scenarios, i.e.
νs,t
iyha = 1 −
ps,t
yh + ωyθs,t
jyha
cs,t
iyha + (1 − ωy)θs,tiyha
(13)
This way the model captures changes in profit margins due to comparative advantages of
individual firms and incorporates the cost-savings present in transitioning to a green business
model resulting from advancements in technological innovation. This reflects increased profits
for firms due to declining costs in, e.g. levelised cost of electricity in low-carbon technologies
for the energy sector 10.
2.2.2 Stranded Assets
Our model allows to estimate the share of stranded assets for firm i that has an impact on the
collateral value of a firm and the debt financial instruments. More specifically we assess carbon
budget implications of a scenario s on the asset composition of firm i. We hereby rely on the
respective carbon budgets set out in the transition scenarios defined in section 2. Put simply,
we define stranded assets Si of firm i as the ratio of the sum of firms’ physical asset production
P s,t
ia that is incompatible with a given scenario budget over the period t = {2020, ...,2040}.
Incompatibility is expressed as the overshoot of cumulative committed emissions across assets
beyond a regional carbon budget. We proceed in two steps.
First, we estimate the committed emissions χs,t
iga under scenario s for each emitting asset a
of firm i in region g over the remaining period starting from date t under the transition baseline
scenario.
χs,t
iga =
X
v∈T
P s,v
iga ϵv
iga (14)
where ϵv
iga is the emission intensity of asset a of firm i.
10Note that the same principle applies to a wide range of climate-critical sectors and can be implemented
with slight adjustments. For instance, in the automotive industry, different technology assumptions for batteries,
internal combustion engines and electric cars can be applied.
20

===== PAGE 21 =====

Second, we identify the contribution of the asset to the carbon budget consumption of region
g to identify an incompatibility threshold, beyond which the assets production and emission
exceed the allowed consumption of the carbon budget. More specifically, we assume that the
regional carbon budget Bs
iga is distributed according to the relative share of the assets production
in the given region. Hence, the carbon budget Bs
iga as of date t of asset a of firm i in region g
under a Paris-aligned scenario is given by:
Bs,t
iga = P s,t
ga
P s,t
g
Bs,t
g , (15)
where Bs,t
g is the total remaining carbon budget in region g under scenario s as of time t. Hence,
we have that at time t the share Ss,t
ig ∈ [0, 1] of firm i’s production across its assets a in region
g having stranded asset risk given the materialization of scenario s is given by
Ss,t
ig =
X
a∈A
χs,t
iga − Bs,t
iga
χs,t
iga
(16)
From equation 16 it becomes clear, that stranded assets of firm i are given by the share of
the firms production that is incompatible with a Paris-aligned carbon budget. Note that firms
with a more sustainable asset composition and lower emission intensities face lower stranded
assets than firms that have a large share of their production in high-carbon technologies and
business units such as power generation from coal-fired plants. We assume that this stranded
asset measure is a key driver of financial risk as it directly depreciates the value of the firms
liabilities (FI, 2018), when such assets serve as underlying collateral for refinancing on financial
markets. Stranded asset directly feed into our credit risk model described in section 3 by lin-
early increasing the loss given default of firm i.
2.2.3 Firm Calibration Strategy
To calibrate the second layer of the ACST, we need financial and economic data on firms.
Datasets such as ORBIS 11, Bloomberg 12, Refinitiv Eikon 13 provide the required information,
but other financial databases and providers have similar information with varying degrees of
scope.14.
To assess the firm value under different scenarios, we require information on firm profit
margins, unit costs and prices to calibrate equation 13. This enables us to compute the free
cash flow for each firm and asset. For data requirements on the scenario-specific unit cost
11https://www.bvdinfo.com/en-gb/
12https://www.bloomberg.com/professional/solution/bloomberg-terminal/
13https://www.refinitiv.com/en/products/eikon-trading-software
14The decision on which datasets to use to calibrate the model should be considered case-specific, depending
on the scope and granularity of the exercise
21

===== PAGE 22 =====

projections, refer to section 2.2.1. In case price data is not available to a sufficient level of
granularity, we propose the following strategy to model the prices of technologies endogenously.
We can assume that the regional unit end-price for each technology ps,t
gyh at time t in scenario
s is dependent on the average regional unit costs for the technology ¯cs,t
gyh as well as the average
net profit margin νg of firms that produce technologies in region g, i.e.
ps,t
gyh = ¯cs,t
gyh(1 + νgyh) (17)
where νgyh represents the average net profit margin of firms in regiong in sector y producing
technology h in our sample and cs,t
gyh represents the regional unit cost projections across scenar-
ios. Note that νgyh can also be calibrated to be time-varying and inversely linearly dependent on
the unit cost differentials across scenarios. Depending on the availability of data for calibration,
this relationship can generate cost and price parameters.
Our model captures the ability to discount future cash flows on a firm-specific discount
rate, whereby the firm specific betas are required. Another option is to calibrate the discount
rate with the weighted-average cost of capital (WACC) for the respective sector y, assuming a
constant beta, constant risk premium and a constant risk-free rate. The risk-free rate ρf can be
set equal to the 30Y US treasury yield, the firm- or sector specific beta βi and the global risk
premium E[RM] to be the excess CAPE yield of Shiller. 15. Further, to estimate the terminal
value in equation 7 we need to calibrate the standard economic growth rate, based on historical
observations.
A prerequisite of the model is information on emission intensities and production or capac-
ities on the physical asset level. Here we rely on data provided by Asset Resolution, but the
availability of asset-level data across many climate critical sectors is steadily increasing across
different providers, e.g. Spatial Finance Initiative (SFI) 16, Global Energy Monitor17, the World
Resource Institute18 among others. More information on the use of asset-level data to generate
the scenario production trajectories, as well as required data inputs for unit costs and carbon
tax trajectories can be found in Section 2.1. To calibrate the change in the firm cost structure
due to the implementation of a carbon tax, information on the pass-trough parameter ω is
needed. This can be based upon empirical findings in the academic literature. 19. More detailed
information on the calibration strategy of the exploratory analysis in this paper can be found
in section 3.
15See: http://www.econ.yale.edu/~shiller/data.htm.
16https://www.cgfi.ac.uk/spatial-finance-initiative/
17https://globalenergymonitor.org
18https://datasets.wri.org/dataset/globalpowerplantdatabase
19For instance (Neuhoff & Ritz, n.d.) find a relatively low pass-trough effect of 7% in the industrial sector.
22

===== PAGE 23 =====

2.3 Layer Three: The Financial System
In order to understand the propagation of transition risk from the real economy to the financial
system, we need to introduce the third layer of the ACST.
2.3.1 Financial Institutions
We represent financial sectors s ∈ S (e.g. banks, investment funds, insurance and pension
funds), by a set of individual financial institutions j. We represent each financial institutions j
at a representative level with a unique balance sheet composition to reflect the importance of
balance sheet heterogeneity. The exposure of each financial actor j to firm i can be decomposed
along the main types of financial instruments. Following (Battiston, Mandel, Monasterolo,
Sch¨ utze, & Visentin, 2017),At
j gives the total assets of financial actor j, C the set of climate-
critical firms, and V = [equity, bond, loan] the set of financial instruments. The assets of
financial institution j are then given by the asset value across its counterparty and asset types
with each counterparty, i.e.,
As,t
j =
X
i∈C
X
v∈V
As,t
jiv . (18)
In what follows, we focus on the formulation and transmission channels of risk propagation
through financial instruments that directly affect financial institutions balance sheets.
2.3.2 Expected Financial Loss
The expected total financial loss Et[Ls
ji] that financial institution j is facing in the scenario s as
of time t. This is expressed as the sum of the expected losses from its individual asset exposure
Av
ji across all relevant asset classes v ∈ V , i.e.,
Et[Ls
ji] =
X
v∈V
Et[Ls
jiv] = Et[Ls
ji,equity] + Et[Ls
ji,bond] + Et[Ls
jj,loan]. (19)
Equity. The expected financial losses for financial institutions j′s equity exposure can be
described as follows:
Et[Ls,equity
ji ] = Estress,t
ji − Ebaseline,t
ji , (20)
where Es,t
ji denotes the equity value ofj’s investment in firmi under scenario s = {stress, baseline}
and is given by
Es,t
ji =
ut
ji
ut
j
Es,t
i . (21)
Hence, institution j’s equity value in firm i is given by the current equity value of firm i in
scenario s, Es,t
i , times the number of equity shares j holds of firm i, ut
ji, relative to the total
number of outstanding shares of firm i, ut
i. Equation 21 makes clear that institution j’s equity
23

===== PAGE 24 =====

investment in i changes proportionally to changes in the equity value of i.
We obtain the firms equity value Es,t
ji in the model under different scenarios, by abstracting
from the asset value As,t
i of firm i, assuming that the firm can choose its share of dividends
payed out to investors in response to the shock. The dividend factor βt
j then determines the
relationship between the net present value of the firm i and the financial equity valuation, i.e.
Es,t
i = βs,t
i As,t
i . (22)
Hence, we assume that firm i’s equity value at time t under scenario s is equal to its asset
value As,t
i in this scenario, i.e. the sum of all of its future dividend payments when discounted
back to their present value, times the dividend factor. Refer back to section 2.2.1 which will
discuss how the asset value of firm i is obtained. From equation 22 it becomes clear, that the
model allows for a time-varying dividend factor, that reflects a companies’ strategic response
to climate shocks. For instance, firm i, in the face of reduced cash-flows in the transition,
might chose to reduce dividends paid out to investors to increase liquidity. Alternatively, the
firm might decide to increase dividends, which firm i can offset by increasing debt levels Lj
respectively. This will decrease the equity loss for financial institution j exposed to firm i,
but simultaneously will impact the firms creditworthiness and leverage ratio (expected loss for
bonds and loans), as we describe in more detail below. 20
Bond and Loan. The expected financial losses for financial institutions j′s bond and loan
exposure can be described as follows:
Et[Ls,loan
ji ] = (P Dstress
i − P Dbaseline
i ) ∗ LGDs
ji ∗ EaDji, (23)
For now, we assume that EaDji is not dependent on the scenario s, hence we assume a
static balance sheet.
The LGDs
ji of institutions j′s investment in firm i is inversely linear dependent on the
stranded assets Si in the stress scenario, i.e.
LGDs
ji = λmin + (1 − λmin)Si, (24)
where λmin represents the loss given default threshold that can be calibrated accordingly.
Assuming log-normal asset returns of each firm i ∈ C , the PD 21 of firm i in scenario s is,
according to the Merton model (Merton, 1974), given by
P Ds
i = 1 − N (DDs
i ), (25)
20Note that this mechanism has not yet been implemented yet in the code infrastructure. For now, we assume
βs,t
i = 1
21Note, that the creditworthiness of some state-owned firms are highly dependent on the home countries’ credit
profile (Hoepner, Oikonomou, Scholtens, & Schr¨ oder, 2016), which cannot be sufficiently captured yet.
24

===== PAGE 25 =====

where N is the cumulative standard normal distribution, and where the distance to default
(DD) of firm i in scenario s is given by
DDs
i =
log (As,t
i ) + (µj − 1
2 σ2
j )Ti − log(Lt
i)
σj
√Ti
, (26)
where µi denotes the expected return of the assets of firm i (and can be set to the firm-
specific risk premium as defined in section 2.2) and σi the volatility of i’s assets. For now, we
assume that this is scenario independent. Further, Ti represents the average maturity of firm
i’s liability. In the Merton model Ti is the maturity of the single liability of the firm. The asset
value As,t
i of firm i is scenario dependent and will be impacted in the stress scenario, depending
on the firms strategic alignment and individual cost structure (see 2.2.1). The firms’ liabilities
Lt
i are given by its current liabilities plus the additional debt needed to mitigate the dividend
pass through of the climate risks (difference between Astress,t
i and Estress,t
i in the shock scenario,
dependent on the behavioral dividend parameter to minimise equity volatility. It follows that,
i.e.
Lt
i = Li + (1 − βj)As,t
i . (27)
The liabilities Li of firm i can be calibrated based on observable debt levels. Overall, this
representation of the financial system allows us to model the changes in the value of the equity
and liabilities of the real economy and the effect on the balance sheets of financial institutions.
2.3.3 TRISK
We define the transition risk – put differently TRISK – of a financial institution j associated
with the stress scenario s3 = {stress} relative to the baseline scenario s3 = {baseline}. More
formally, the TRISK of institution j gives the current value at time t of the expected dollar
loss that it is estimated to suffer given the uncertain materialisation of the transition. TRISK
can be obtained across a wide range of different transition narratives and parameters in the set
scenarios S to represent a plausible range of risk estimates for financial institution j, depending
on different beliefs around future transition pathways, technological change and carbon tax
policies. More formally, TRISK is defined as
T RISK s,t
j =
X
v∈V
X
i∈C
T RISK s,v,t
ji = Et[Ls,equity,t
ji ] + Et[Ls,bond,t
ji ] + Et[Ls,loan,t
ji ], (28)
where T RISK s,t
ji represents the dollar loss that financial insitution j could suffer on its
portfolio of assets of type v ∈ V , where V is the set of financial assets. Further, T RISK s,v,t
ji
denotes the TRISK institution j faces in scenario s on its asset investments of type v in firm
i, where C represents the set of analysed firms in climate-critical sectors. This can also be
expressed as expected loss in relative terms to the overall exposure of financial institution j, i.e.
25

===== PAGE 26 =====

Ej[L] = T RISK s,v,t
i
Aj
. (29)
We can also define the TRISK for each real economic firm i across two dimensions, irrespec-
tive of the financial risk implications. First, T RISK N P V
i is expressed as the difference in the
net present value of firm i between the stress and the baseline scenario , i.e.
T RISK N P V
i = Astress
i − Abaseline
i . (30)
Further, T RISK P D
i is expressed as the difference in the probability of default of firm i
between the stress and the baseline scenario , i.e.
T RISK P D
i = P Dstress
i − P Dbaseline
i (31)
This way risk implications can also be reflected on the country level. Here, O represents the
set of firms i headquartered in country c. The T RISK c of country c is then the sum of TRISK
across domestic firms, i.e. P
i∈O T RISK N P V
i and P
i∈O T RISK P D
i .
Indirect impact. A large portion of total assets held by financial institutions are issued by
other financial institutions (Battiston et al., 2017). As a result, there is a potential systemic
risk that can materialize through the so-called second-round effects (Stolbova, Monasterolo,
& Battiston, 2018). In the breakdown of total assets As,t
j by financial institution j , we can
distinguish the securities issued by firms in the financial sectorss ∈ S (whose values additionally
depend on their own assets’ values as Aj) from those issued directly by firms in the climate-
critical sectors i ∈ C to obtain:
As,t
j =
"X
i∈C
X
v∈V
As,t
jiv
#
+

X
j∈S
X
v∈V
As,t
jjv

 . (32)
Put simply, financial institution j is not only directly exposed to firm i (which asset value
As,t
i is impacted by the transition shock), but also holds exposure to other financial institutions
j across financial sectors s ∈ S , which itself have exposure to transition-affected firms and hence
see their own asset value diminishing. Across its counterparty assets Aj, financial institution j
is also faced with indirect losses Et[L] due to TRISK, i.e.
Ei[Lindirect] =
X
j∈S
X
v∈V
[As,t
jjv − T RISK s,t
j ]. (33)
Note that such a representation of indirect holdings represents the potential second-round
losses in its simplest form and neglects amplification mechanisms due to the reactive behavior of
financial institutions, fire-sale assumptions and broader contagion effects. However, the shocks
on the individual firm-financial level could inform more complex heterogeneous network models,
such as (Farmer, Kleinnijenhuis, Nahai-Williamson, & Wetzer, 2020). Such an integration allows
for a more comprehensive analysis of systemic resilience across a set of financial sectors.
26

===== PAGE 27 =====

2.3.4 Financial Exposure Calibration Strategy
To calibrate the third layer of the ACST, we need additional financial data on firms, as well
as data on financial portfolios and counterparty-level securities along relevant financial instru-
ments. For analysed financial insitutioni, we need information on the balance sheet composition,
i.e. their absolute number of equity shares, bond and loan exposure to firms at time t. For
central banks and supervisors, granular exposure data such as AnaCredit 22 for the European
banking sector can be used. Alongside this, information on the maturities of debt securities is
required as well as estimates on current probabilities of default based on standard risk manage-
ment frameworks.23
To calibrate the TRISK framework, additional information for firms is needed. This includes
the total number of outstanding equity shares of firm i, annualised volatility and rate of change
of the market value of the firm’s assets, market capitalization and outstanding debt levels, as
well as debt-to-equity leverage ratios. For a more detailed discussion on the calibration of the
exploratory analysis undertaken in this paper, refer to section 3 and for additional plots and
graphs for the illustrative firm sample, refer to the Appendix A. All information can again be
gathered from financial databases. 24
22https://www.ecb.europa.eu/stats/money credit banking/anacredit/html/index.en.html
23A common challenge with the Merton framework is the alignment of model predicted PDs with empirically
observed PDs (Cormack et al., 2020). Note that our ACST produces estimates on the transition-related changes
in probabilities of default, which can then be used to adjust the empirically observed probabilities of defaults
(Cormack et al., 2020).
24Note that further assumptions have to be made for firms and FIs on which we do not have such granular
information. Here, we propose to construct meaningful benchmark averages to populate missing values. Especially
for private firms we can, for example, assume that the leverage of each energy company is given by a target leverage
of debt over enterprise value of similar sized public firms in the same region.
27

===== PAGE 28 =====

2.4 Model Limitations
The model is faced with limitations across the three layers of the framework - scenarios, the
economy and the financial system - which is now discussed in more detail.
Scenarios. While the framework accounts for the three drivers of a transition shock, i.e.,
demand changes, technological change and policy-induced carbon pricing, these are modelled
in isolation. There is no interaction mechanism between scenarios in the model that represent
the potential compounding and amplifying nature of the risk drivers.
The Economy. The model features a limited representation of the firms balance sheet, revenue
and cost structure. For instance, we assume that the revenue of a firm is solely dependent on
the future cash flows generated through its physical production infrastructure. For now, the
model does not account for other revenue or income generated from other than the firms core
business activities, i.e., it neglects the potential income due to investments in other business
segments or other financial income. While the model captures the potential choice of a firm
to reduce dividends payed to shareholders, it cannot capture the inter-temporal complexity
involved in such a strategy. Future research could expand the representation of mitigating pa-
rameters that allow a strategic reaction of the impacted firm to mitigate the impact on financial
firm valuation. Further, the model accounts for a simple representation of the pass trough of
additional policy-induced costs to the consumer, assuming that an increased price can be sold
in the market without any demand losses.
While the ACST represents the strategic direction firms are taking through the represen-
tation of production plans, it is faced with limitations in fully capturing the adaptive capacity
and shifts in companies strategies. For instance, the model mechanisms are currently set in a
way that firms that have not yet build out, and are indeed not planning to build out sustainable
technologies in the near future, miss out on the opportunity to capture market shares in an ex-
panding market. This indirectly penalises firms that are climate laggards in some technologies,
preventing them from catching up throughout the time horizon of the stress test.
Further, no endogenous feedback mechanisms are integrated. The framework does not cap-
ture a dynamic response to the transition shock from the financial sector to the real economy. For
instance, a TRISK exposed bank may find it individually optimal to reduce lending (deleverage)
to highly vulnerbale firms in climate-critical sectors. When the whole banking sector exercises
such deleveraging, this may trigger an adverse credit supply shock, i.e. a substantial contraction
to the credit granted to the non-financial private sector. As the banking system in the is the
backbone of the real economy and finances a substantial share of macroeconomic investment,
such a contraction would result into higher loan interest rates, ultimately dampening economic
growth (ESRB, 2020). The integration of such a feedback transmission channel is left for further
research.
28

===== PAGE 29 =====

The Financial System. The model does not fully capture a probabilistic approach around
the expected shortfall and unexpected loss of exposed financial institutions. Note, that also the
choice of financial models, the dividend cash flow model and the Merton approach to estimate
the effect of climate transition impacts are not without limitations. For instance, the Merton
framework assumes perfect competition and efficient financial markets without frictions, as well
as a normal distribution of the shock and market value of assets - assumptions that, in the
context of tail-risk distributed risks under a extreme but plausible transition scenario could be
violated25.
Further we assume a scenario-independent asset volatility, where the shock transmission will
enter the credit risk only through a relative change of the equity value of firm i and the impact
of stranded assets on the loss given default. This is clearly a limitation and may lead to an
underestimation of the TRISK, as it is reasonable to expect that also the volatility increases
in relation to a declining absolute equity value and decreasing dividends. Such a stochastic
representation of the transition risk channel is however currently not incorporated in the model
and is left for future research. This also highlights the need for a better representation of firms
reactive behavior to initial shocks. This could be modelled through the representation of both,
dynamic balance sheets of financial intuitions exposed to transition risk, and the dynamic re-
sponse of financial institutions itself to restructure their balance sheet in response to a TRISK
shock. For instance, if a bank suffers a financial loss due to the direct impact of climate-related
risk (e.g. decreasing loan quality and increased probability of default to TRISK exposed firms)
it is likely to deteriorate their capitalisation and profitability. This may trigger certain ampli-
fication effects within the banking sector, as it could be perceived from an investor perspective
that this particular bank has a lower creditworthiness. This in turn may result in an increase
of funding cost on the inter-bank market, further deteriorating the bank’s profitability and ul-
timately banks’ solvency.
Last, it should be highlighted that the TRISK-related changes in PDs should be interpreted
carefully, due to the context of longer time horizons. The probability of defaults do not represent
a one-year PD as interpreted in the classical financial context. The PD changes incorporate the
discounted shock effect that spans across the horizon of the stress test and hence do not repre-
sent the true probability of a firm defaulting today, but rather reflect the potential range and
spectrum of a default given the manifestation of the transition. Hence, the PD change depends
on the scenario itself, the strategic direction and potential misalignment of firms throughout
the entire duration of the net-zero transition. This limitations clearly stresses the need for new
innovative climate-related financial models that are designed for the purpose of higher uncer-
25For a detailed discussion on the limitations and assumptions underlying the Merton framework please refer
to e.g. (Sundaresan, 2013)
29

===== PAGE 30 =====

tainties and longer time horizons. Most approaches, including the TRISK framework simply
adjust existing frameworks and ”forces” these models to accommodate to climate change com-
plexities. This is a more fundamental critique, where the finance and research community needs
to accelerate efforts to appropriately develop tools and techniques to effectively represent longer
time horizons.
30

===== PAGE 31 =====

3 Results of Exploratory Application
This section presents the results of an exploratory application of the ACST and TRISK to
an illustrative set of 135 public power firms that in 2021 capture around 30% of global power
production and are responsible for 4.543 Gt of CO 2 or around 34% of power-related global
emissions. These firms are headquartered in 29 countries, and through their ownership struc-
ture own 8025 physical power assets across 92 countries. We further decompose these firms
into relevant business units to capture the unique composition of electricity generating tech-
nologies.We distinguish between electricity generation from oil, coal, gas, renewables, hydro and
nuclear. Together, these firms represent a total market capitalisation of US $ 1.87 trillion and
outstanding debt of US $ 1.86 trillion US $.
The data used to map physical infrastructure and production information is provided by
Asset Resolution. We source relevant financial data from Refinitiv Eikon as of February 2022.
Table 2 presents the baseline settings for our results and the detailed calibration strategy of
main parameter. For the set of endogenous model parameters, a descriptive statistic of key
parameters, sector and firm’ business unit and technology in the sample refer to Appendix A.
In principle, the ACST can be extended to cover all public and nonpublic 70.000 firms in the
Asset Resolution dataset, comprising over 350.000 physical assets
Table 2: Baseline settings of results.
Time horizon [t,T] of climate stress test•t= 2020,T= 2040
Shock Year,Z •2030
Stress Scenario
•s1={baseline}until the introduction of “climate action” in shock yearZ2030
•fromt={2030, ...,2040}∆Pstress,tiyh derived froms2={target}
•unit cost developmentscs,tyhgby the (IEA, 2020)
•carbon tax trajectoriesψs,tg = 0
Baseline Scenario
•Ps,tiyhover the periodt={2020, ...,2025}calibrated on production plans of firmifrom AR
and ∆Ps,tiyhobtained from the current policy scenario ’CPS’ by the (IEA, 2020)
for the remainder of the stress testing horizon (t={2025, ...,2040})
•unit cost developmentscs,tyhgby the (IEA, 2020)
•Carbon taxψs,t= 0
Discount rate,ρ •ρ= 4,83% (Cost of equity withρf= 0.02,βj= 0.0073 andE[RM] = 0.0387)
Profit marginνi •firm-specifc; Refinitiv Eikon data
Pricesps,tgyh •ps,tgyh= ¯cs,tgyh(1 +νgyh)
Carbon budget,Bsiga Bsiga= 466 Gt/CO2(1.5°Degree Target)
Dividend factorβ •βtj= 1
Volatility of asset,σ •firm-specifc; Refinitiv Eikon data
asset drift,µ •firm-specifc; Refinitiv Eikon data
growth rateg •g= 0.02 (World Bank average 2012-2022)
Maturity of financial instrument, T•Global corporate average for sample portfolio (Chen, Ganum, Liu, Martinez, & Martinez Peria, 2019)
Loss given default thresholdλ λ = 0.45
Set of Firms
•135 public firms,Y= power sector,a= 8025 assets
•PEi= 1.87 trillion US$
•PLi= 1.86 trillion US$
Production levelsPs,tiyh •AR data
Asset emission intensityϵsjyha •AR data
31

===== PAGE 32 =====

We present our results on two stages, reflecting the flexibility of the ACST to produce
TRSIK estimates on economic firms ( T RISK N P V
i and T RISK P D
i respectively; see subsection
3.1) and on financial institutions ( Ej[L]; see subsection 3.2). The results aim to demonstrate
the core model mechanisms, as well as the range and structure of the stress testing outcomes.
More importantly, we aim to adequately reflect the uncertainties and sensitivities involved in
the ACST and convey the flexibility and transparency of our approach.
3.1 Impact on Firms
The TRISK across our analysed subset of firms shows significant heterogeneity. Table 7 sum-
marises the transition related impact on firms’ net present values (NPVs) - T RISK N P V
i - and
probability of defaults (PDs) - T RISK P D
i - in the stress scenario. We observe that depending
on the firms’ alignment of business strategy, cost-advantages across its business units and tech-
nologies, as well as individual balance sheet compositions and leverage, the T RISK N P V
i varies
significantly, with an average impact of -14%. We observe a large standard deviation, with the
5th and 95 th percentile of T RISK N P V
i around -49% and 11.56%. Individual firms that are
highly misaligned even see their net present values decline by around 80% in the stress relative
to the baseline scenario. Unsurprisingly, firms with a Paris-aligned strategy even receive net
positive impacts of up to 21% from the transition shock.
Table 3: Descriptive statistics of key results for TRISK of 135 international power firms,
expressed as unweighted average net present value changes and probability of default changes.
5th Percentile Mean Median 95th Percentile
Net present value changes (in %) -48.96 -14.22 -10.31 11.56
Probability of default changes (in percentage points) -0.15 0.34 0.00 2.17
On average, we observe an additional 0.34 percentage points in probabilities of defaults
in the stress relative to baseline scenario. Yet, there is significant variation in T RISK P D
i
between -0.15 and 2.17 percentage points, reflecting that some firms see positive changes to
their creditworthiness (negative PD change) while other firms may see large PD increases in the
net-zero transition. For highly impacted firms this represent an up to five-fold relative decrease
in their creditworthiness. While PD changes tend to be smaller in absolute scale, in part due
to difficulties in reflecting longer time horizons in credit risk models (see limitation section 2.4
for discussion), we see a strong heterogeneity in the impact and a negative correlation with the
impacts on the firms’ asset values, as shown in Figure 8.
32

===== PAGE 33 =====

Figure 8: Heterogeneity in Transition Risk for set of international public power firms. TRISK
is expressed as the change in net present value of a firm and the change in the probability of
default of a firm in the stress relative to the baseline scenario
Differences in PD changes across the worst affected firms can be attributed to initial differ-
ences in debt-to-equity ratios and profitability, as reflected in the calibration of the model (see
Figure 14 in the Appendix). This is intuitive, as firms with a strategic transition misalignment
see their NPVs worsened, which moves those firms closer to their default thresholds.
Further, we can decompose the impact on firms’ creditworthiness, by representing the annual
changes in the PDs across the time horizon of our stress test exercise. Figure 9 shows for the
sample of analysed firms the additional annual PD change due to the transition-related shock.
While probabilities of default remain largely unaffected in the years following the shock in 2030,
33

===== PAGE 34 =====

we observe a non-linear increase towards the end of the time horizon, reaching an additional
3.5 percentage point increase in the average PDs. This highlights the significant impact on
the credit quality of analysed firms, with negative effects on the expected losses for financial
institutions exposed to these firms.
34

===== PAGE 35 =====

Figure 9: Annual average changes in the probability of default for the selection of analysed
firms. Results are expressed in percentage points and reflect the additional transition-related
changes across the time horizon of the climate stress test.
Overall, we observe that a large share of the analysed firms are highly misaligned with the
climate targets of transition scenarios. Most firms are therefore not only at high risk of signifi-
cant transition risk, but also hinder the structural transformation of the global power sector. 26
Further, the high variation in the results reflect our model mechanisms, where firms, depending
on their production plans and profitability, as observed in the data, can exhibit a comparative
advantage to capture new market shares and profits across low-carbon technologies and business
units. Climate-laggards that were not planning on building out renewable power technologies,
are confronted with the necessary phase-out of high-carbon technologies to meet the carbon
budget set out in the Paris Agreement. Figure 8 highlights the complexity and variation in
transition impacts across firms, that would be missed in purely sectoral exercises.
26Note that for this exploratory analysis, we assumed a global shock scenario, that does not adequately re-
flect the regional differences and policy landscape of economic decarbonisation trends. We expect that more
differentiated stress scenarios, will deflate the negative impact on firms operating in developing and emerging
economies. This is due to the fact that climate commitments remain behind advanced economies and high-carbon
dependencies are higher for several economic, political and development reasons.
35

===== PAGE 36 =====

This highlights the added-value of granular stress testing frameworks that allow to differ-
entiate between transitioning firms and climate-laggards, to effectively inform policy makers
and financial institutions across jurisdictions on the distributional transition impact. Such an
analysis can be further expanded to other climate-critical sectors for which granular asset-level
information is available and be calibrated to a much larger set of firms to capture systemic
first-round effects distributional impacts across geographies. While our exploratory analysis
suggests that European power firms are on average less negatively impacted by the transition,
than US and Asian counterparts, we still observe individual firms across all jurisdictions that
significantly deviate from peers in their region - both, negatively and positively. The model
set up and asset-level data also allows to capture firms’ subsidiaries and attributes individual
physical assets across the ownership structure of firms globally. Such interconnected economic
networks, where production facilities in Asia are owned by European counter-parties and vice
versa, stresses the need for a global analysis on the firm-level. As seen in Figure 17 and 18 in
the Appendix, even our small selection of international power firms, while headquartered across
22 countries, own more than 8.000 individual power assets across 92 countries. This reflects
interconnected modern production networks. As transition risks not only depend on the in-
stitutional framework and governments’ net-zero commitments where firms are headquartered,
but also on the policy landscape and efforts in countries where supply chains and production
facilities lie, it seems crucial to structure climate stress tests based on bottom-up microeconomic
models, able to capture such differences.
To showcase whats driving the results on the firm-level, figure 12 shows for a selection of
firms the infra-firm variation of transition impacts across business units (technologies) and the
overall weighted T RISK N P V
i .
We observe that firms with active business units and production in high-carbon technologies
(i.e. electricity generated from coal, oil and gas) are negatively impacted due to demand changes
and increased relative unit costs, impacting their future cash-flows. For instance, some firms
see their NPV of coal power business units decline between 55-60% depending on firms’ cost
advantage vis-a-vis its peers. Note that the demand shock is the same across all firms. This
variation in impact across firms is even more prominent in operations focusing on renewable
power generation. Here, depending on the respective market share of a firms in such technolo-
gies, their business units are faced with increasing cash flows, driven by first mover advantages.
Note, that we allow a simple form of comparative advantage in the model, where firms that
already build out renewable technologies according to their production plans, can capture larger
share of future profits as opposed to firms that are not planning on building production across
such business units.
Figure 12 shows that the transition impact is, in addition to cost differentials due to tech-
nological change, driven by the firms production composition and demand effects across its
36

===== PAGE 37 =====

Figure 10: Within Firm heterogeneity across business units and overall transition-related
impact
relevant business units 27. Such demand effects are represented in the model as the required
production change stated in the target scenario.
Note that such changes can be driven endogenously by strategic shifts of firms operations,
consumer behavior or policy induced-phase outs of high-carbon technologies 28. The model aims
to leave the reason of the introduced ”stress” to the system open for interpretation of whats
driving such a shock. However, as the model mechanisms allows for a parametrisation of the
shock year, the degree of disruption resulting from such a shock can be adjusted and tested.
Refer to section 4 for an extensive sensitivity analysis of different scenario narratives (degree
27Note that not all firms in our sample are pure power firms and may generate income from other business
units outside of climate-critical sectors, in which case we would overestimate the transition impact on the firm.
28Or mixture of the above drivers, e.g. governments introduce a steep carbon tax on fossil fuels, which increases
the prices to the end consumer and demand flattens
37

===== PAGE 38 =====

of disruption of transition scenario), as well as robustness tests of our results on a variety of
model parameters.
Stranded Assets. We estimate for the set of power firms their stranded assets, i.e., the share
of production that is incompatible with the carbon budget in the target scenario. This allows
us to proxy the impact on collateral values and the resulting loss given default in the financial
layer. As a baseline setting, we assume a global carbon budget of 460bn tonnes of CO2 as
outlined in the SR15 by the IPCC 29. We further allocate the carbon budget for the set of firms
in our sample, by estimating the share of firms’ individual production levels in 2020 relative
to the global power production and the attributed carbon emissions 30. Note, that the model
framework allows for more sophisticated geographical allocation rules and more granular carbon
budgets.
29https://www.ipcc.ch/sr15/
30The share of the power sector carbon emissions is based on World Electricity Power Production: BP Statistical
Review of World Energy, Ember Global Electricity Review (2022) Ember European Electricity Review (2022)
38

===== PAGE 39 =====

Figure 11: Share of Stranded Assets by firms
Figure 11 shows the distribution of stranded assets ( Ss,t
i ) across the set of analysed firms.
While the power production of around 26% of the firms are compatible with a 1.5 ° carbon
budget, the majority of firms face the risk of stranded assets. Individual firms risk up to 95%
of their production to be stranded, hence rendering production facilities uneconomically in the
face of strong climate action and demand changes.
39

===== PAGE 40 =====

3.2 Impact on Financial Institutions
In this section, we present the TRISK that individual financial institutions face in a stress sce-
nario, expressed as the expected loss Ej[L] relative to the overall portfolio size. The focus of
the analysis is to highlight the distributional consequences of the transition depending on the
unique portfolio composition and balance sheet of an FI. For this, we construct two portfolios
that represent extreme cases 31. Portfolio A includes equity and debt to the 18 least impacted
power firms in the stress scenario, with an overall portfolio exposure of 512 billion US $. Port-
folio B includes equity and debt to the 24 most impacted power firms in the stress scenario,
with an overall portfolio exposure of 524 billion US $. These portfolios hence represent the full
spectrum of transition impacts. We further assume a constant balance sheet throughout the
time-horizon of the stress test, hence do not represent strategic behavior of FIs or feedback
mechanisms between the economy and the financial system.
We estimate the TRISK - i.e. the expected loss from transition-related market and credit
risk - across the two constructed portfolios. Overall, FIs that are invested or provide credit to
firms that are aligned with climate objectives are the winners of the net-zero transformation,
even seeing an overall reduction in expected losses, while FIs that are exposed to misaligned
firms are the losers and might be facing significant financial losses. Across the two portfolios
the overall TRISK relative to the overall portfolio size varies between a highly negative impact
of around 18% as opposed to an overall positive impact of around 8%. The impact is stronger
on market risk losses, reflecting that equity prices are more volatile and sensible to investors
and market behavior than debt. The heterogeneous impact on portfolios, highlights that the
transition inhibits clear distributional consequences across the financial sector, with potential
amplification and second round effects if the TRISK creates solvency issues. It is borne by
financial institutions that have portfolio exposure to firms most at risk from the transition.
Table 4: Descriptive statistics of key results for TRISK in the two sample portfolios, expressed
as transition-related market risk and expected loss from credit risk relative to overall portfolio
size in %.
TRISKEj[L] Portfolio Size (in$US billion) No. of firms exposed
Portfolio A (least impacted firm) 7.80 512 18
Portfolio B (most impacted firm) -18.03 524 24
Capturing such a heterogeneity in scenario and stress testing models is crucial to inform
31We assume all outstanding debt is held with a maturity of 5.61 years, representing the global corporate
average (Chen et al., 2019). We further assume a constant dividend factor of 1, hence impacts on the firms
profits are passed on directly to shareholders by reducing dividends accordingly. See Baseline settings of results
in section 3.
40

===== PAGE 41 =====

financial markets and regulators. The failure to distinguish transitioning firms from climate
laggards within the same industry in current financial risk management practices is problem-
atic. Firms belonging to carbon-intensive sectors today, such as the power sector, will need to
receive plenty of funding at a low cost of capital in order finance the net-zero transition and
expand world energy capacity to meet the increase in world demand. Large energy firms have
the most know-how and skills to produce energy at scale to meet future demand. Therefore,
investors should divest only from those firms that do not plan to transition to a greener business
model.
Further research could utilise the climate stress testing framework to assess the TRISK and
resilience of the international banking system. We therefore focus our analysis on testing sensi-
tivities of different scenario narratives and model parameter to derive the cost of the financial
sector if climate action is delayed (see sensitivity analysis in Section 4).
41

===== PAGE 42 =====

4 Treatment of Uncertainty and Sensitivity Analysis
The ACST and underlying scenarios are subject to uncertainty, given the complex nature of
climate risks and its interdependencies with socio-economic transformations, the irreversibil-
ity, technological progress and individual decision-making of firms. In this section, we want to
shortly outline how and why scenario analysis has been identified to, at least in part, circumvent
such uncertainties, but also want to highlight some critical insights and limitations around the
treatment of uncertainty.
Emerging consensus, and also a key recommendation from the TCFD, have identified forward-
looking scenario analysis and the integration of financial vulnerability analysis as a crucial tool
to overcome some of these limitations (BIS, 2021a; NGFS, 2019; Semieniuk, Campiglio, Mer-
cure, Volz, & Edwards, 2021; TCFD, 2017) and to effectively assess the resilience of financial
institutions to physical and transition risks over a longer horizon. In essence, climate scenario
analysis seeks to set up plausible hypotheses for the future that allows to examine the effects
of a wide range of plausible scenarios (BIS, 2021a). This approach can assist in quantifying
tail risks (Weitzman, 2009) and can clarify the uncertainties inherent to climate-related risks
by focusing on questions such as ‘under how many scenarios are financial institutions resilient
to climate shocks? ´- this represents more of a what-if scenario approach that is able to derive
meaningful upper-bound climate risk estimates under worst-case hypothesis, rather than aiming
to predict future climate risk impacts per se. Our approach put forward in this paper there-
fore allows to construct multiple scenarios, under varying climate and economic assumptions to
better understand the sensitivities of model parameters and TRISK outcomes. In our sensitiv-
ity analysis, one parameter can be altered across multiple scenario runs to observe the range of
TRISK outcomes that result from changes in that parameter (BIS, 2021a; Mercure et al., 2019).
It can also be adjusted to capture the necessary climate change time-horizon, where standard
backward-looking modelling approaches would lead to no meaningful result due to large error
margins in the predictive power of models.
While the climate stress testing model has been set up to allow for such long-time horizons,
flexible scenario integration and parameterization, the issue of uncertainty should not be ne-
glected. This is especially the case for multi-layered modelling approaches that seek to combine
highly complex relationships between economic and financial actors. Uncertainties arise at each
step along the causal chain, from the construction of the transition scenario, to the estimation
of micro- and macroscale climate-adjusted impacts to the validation against reported financial
losses. Conceptually, we want to make the high-level distinction between (a) intrinsic uncer-
tainty, including model and parametric uncertainty, and (b) extrinsic uncertainty. We identify
the following sources of uncertainty in our model.
42

===== PAGE 43 =====

4.1 Extrinsic Uncertainty
Extrinsic uncertainty arises from various factors that are influencing the design and construction
of the scenarios, limitations around the representation of climate risk transmission channels and
external factors that we cannot capture in the analysis.
Asset and Firm Value. While we rely on financial approaches and a micro-economic repre-
sentation to estimate the asset and firm value under different scenarios, the approach is limited
in capturing individual firm specific characteristics that might influence the climate transition
impact. For instance, we currently do not model scenario-dependent geopolitical and regulatory
influences that might differentiate the profitability of some firms. Further, we do not capture
revenue generated from business units other than the physical production, e.g. dividends on
financial investments and other income generated from products outside of the spectrum of the
technologies that we capture. We further, cannot account for location-specific differences in
the characteristics of physical infrastructure assets, that may result in different valuations, e.g.
distance to relevant transport routes and supply chains.
IAMs and Transition Scenarios The transition scenarios are at the heart of the asset-level
based climate stress test model and drive the results and magnitude of the transition risk
impact to firms and financial institutions. We acknowledge that the choice of scenarios and
the respective underlying assumptions are a significant source of uncertainty. This is typically
described by a single indicator (e.g. the reduction in production). For all practical purposes,
this indicator is subject to uncertainty, stemming either from imprecise measurement, uncertain
model output (variation across integrated assessment models), or confidence levels estimated
from extreme value statistics. We describe the sources of uncertainty more in detail. Note
that even if the ACST proposed in this paper is a bottom up approach, it relies on some
scenario inputs that have been generated in climate-economic models and therefore underlies
this uncertainty.
Relying on complex modelling of potential future climate damages and the resulting economic
impact in IAMs is hindered by a wide range of challenges, such as heterogeneous climate im-
pact across income groups (Errickson, Keller, Collins, Srikrishnan, & Anthoff, 2021; Hallegatte
& Rozenberg, 2017), irreversibility of catastrophic climate events and large uncertainty ranges
(Pindyck, 2017; Weitzman, 2009), modelling the distinction between inter-temporal inequality
aversion and use of discount rates (Nordhaus, 2017; Stern, 2007), identifying adequate social
welfare utility functions, and accounting for non-gradual damages, such as climatic and socioe-
conomic tipping points (Lontzek, Cai, Judd, & Lenton, 2015; Rising, Dietz, Stoerk, & Wagner,
2020). For instance, the effects of rising temperature pathways on economic outputs are often
simulated and modeled in complex macroeconomic systems (see e.g. (Mercure et al., 2021;
Semieniuk et al., 2021), and their assumptions differ significantly in terms of their input pa-
rameter assumptions and modelling component representations, such as the degree of regional
43

===== PAGE 44 =====

and sectoral disaggregation, formulation of climate damages, and treatment of adaptation and
uncertainty (Diaz & Moore, 2017) and these limitations are often not transparent.
4.2 Intrinsic Uncertainty
Intrinsic uncertainty arises from various methodological choices and assumptions in the mod-
elling framework, some of which are a result of incomplete data and calibration problems.
Model Framework and scenario-independent parameters. Uncertainty arises from pa-
rameters in the model and the underlying assumptions. Climate stress tests are somewhat
sensitive to the choice of discount rates, as it influences the discounted cash flow model as well
as links into the financial credit risk assessment. We therefore perform an extensive sensitivity
analysis on different discount rates. Our model is further subject to uncertainty from limited
data on the asset volatility, net profit margin projections and debt structure of firms, as well as
emission intensities on the physical asset level. Assumptions were made around these param-
eters that most often assume scenario independence, which introduces uncertainty around the
accuracy of these model parameters, when calibration on real data is not feasible. We aim to
show in the next section the sensitivity of the model to such parameters to better reflect the
TRISK outcome variability.
Adaptive capacity of firms. A source of uncertainty and variability of the impact can be
traced back to the assumptions taken around the adaptive capacity of firms and their strategies
in our model. As outlined in the model limitations section 2.4, we derive the strategy of firms
and adaptive capacity from the forward-looking production plans of firms over a time horizon of
five years. Firms that are not planning to build out sustainable technologies in that time, miss
out on the opportunity to capture market shares in an expanding market for such technologies.
Any potential strategic shifts after that period are, due to data limitations, not reflected in the
model and lead to an under or overestimation of the firms TRISK.
Carbon tax and cost projections. The regional and institutional differentiation of these
scenario projections is limited. In principle it possible to increase granularity, but deep uncer-
tainty about international relations and political behavior remains a source of uncertainty that
is difficult to model. This influences the probability distribution around various carbon taxes
and does not necessarily imply that the scenarios chosen are plausible and extreme. The same
is true for unit cost projections and price projections. There is significant uncertainty around
technological breakthroughs and the scale up of renewable energy, but also carbon capture
and storage technologies that have the potential to influence the profitability and cost impact
on firms. Data limitations usually permit no more than a stratification to a few predefined
set of transition parameters. Again, a bottom up approach based on asset-level data reduces
this uncertainty significantly as opposed to top-down macroeconomic projections that calculate
44

===== PAGE 45 =====

damages on a regional level and abstract impacts on GDP levels. Further we perform a sen-
sitivity analysis with different unit cost projections to show sensitivities in the TRISK impact
due to such variability - the spectrum of technological change however cannot be captured fully
and depends on political and economic decisions in the structural transformation towards net
zero.
4.3 Sensitivity Analysis
Given the extrinsic uncertainties around the transition scenario, we recognise the need for our
climate stress test to incorporate a wide range of plausible scenarios (BIS, 2021b). This goes
beyond current exercises that have just focused on the construction of a few scenario pathways
created within the same Integrated assessment model (IAM) such as exercises by the BoE and
the ECB that both used NGFS scenarios. In contrast, we identify the need to include multiple
scenario pathways across multiple providers and generated across a wide range of models (see
also (Gasparini et al., 2022) for a more in-depth analysis of the effect of different scenarios on
the variability of financial risk outcome).
We differentiate the sensitivity test across (a) scenario-dependent parameters (marked with
an asterisk * in table 5 and table 6) and (b) scenario-independent parameters. The former is
highly dependent on the scenario narrative itself and therefore creates variation in the results
that can be beneficial for the interpretation of the plausible outcome ranges of the stress test.
Scenario-dependent variables include the introduction of the shock year, which represents the
degree of ’disruption’ of a stress scenario and reflects choices around market foresight of firms,
varying carbon tax trajectories that reflect different views on the likely introduction of carbon
pricing mechanisms across jurisdictions, as well as prices and cost projections reflecting the
demand mechanisms and technological change assumptions made in the scenario.
In contrast, the scenario-independent parameters represent choices made in the model set
up and therefore create noise in the outcome ranges that are due to calibration techniques.
Scenario-independent variables include the choices made around the discount rate and financial
parameters such as asset volatility. This differentiation is relevant when the aim of the analysis
is to isolate methodological variation and to allow only different scenario narratives to drive the
impact on firms valuations.
Sensitivity Analysis. We perform a sensitivity analysis for the key parameter in the ACST
(see table 5). Unsurprisingly, we see a significant variation as a result of changing scenario-
dependent parameters, such as the shock year. This reflects the changes in the stress scenario
narrative, as a later shock year reflects an even more disruptive transition and hence represents
an even more tail-risk scenario, depending on the believes around the manifestation of the
45

===== PAGE 46 =====

transition. Our results suggest that delaying the transition from 2025 to 2035 will almost
double the the T RISK N P V
i in our sample (from -10.33% to almost - 19%) and more than
doubles their transition-related changes to the firms PDs (from 0.24 to 0.51 percentage points).
Interestingly, the standard distribution of these impacts increases substantially with the 5 th
percentile of impacts to firms valuation increasing from around -37% to almost -70%. This
entails clear implications for a delayed transition. Firms that are continuously misaligned with
the target scenario will be increasingly impacted the later we introdcue the transition, while
aligned firms will see an increasing positive impact due to newly captured market shares in
sustainable technologies. Such a wider range of results can serve as useful outputs, when
interpreted in the right context. A more disruptive transition, and hence an increasing TRISK
distribution, points to the non-linear relationship between the continued misalignment of firms
with the target scenario. In other words, the increases in TRISK reflect the cost for the financial
sector if climate action by firms are further delayed.
Table 5: Sensitivity analysis of TRISK for firms based on different parameter settings. Net
present value changes in % and PD changes in percentage points.
T RISKN P Vi T RISKP Di
5th Mean 95th 5th Mean 95th
Shock Year,Y (*)
•T= 2025 -36.79 -10.33 9.89 -0.2 0.24 1.45
•T= 2030 -48.96 -14.22 11.56 -0.15 0.34 2.17
•T= 2035 -69.64 -18.75 20.49 -0.36 0.51 3.41
Target Scenario,s(*) •Sustainable Development Scenario IEA (IEA, 2020)-48.96 -14.22 11.56 -0.15 0.33 2.17
•NGFS net-zero scenario (NGFS, 2020) -63.54 -19.73 29.85 -0.22 0.70 4.67
•Oxford Fast Transition Scenario (Way et al., 2021) -64.28 2.41 121.57 -1.41 0.51 4.05
Unit cost projections,cs,tgyh(*) •Cost projections (Way et al., 2021): Fast Transition-46.08 -6.17 28.53 -0.86 0.21 2.20
•Regional cost projections SDS (IEA, 2020) -48.96 -14.22 11.56 -0.15 0.34 2.17
Discount rate,ρ
•ρ= 7.5% (Average WACC public power firms)-48.53 -14.11 11.51 -0.15 0.33 2.14
•ρ= 4,83% (Cost of equity withρf = 0.02,βj = 0.0073
andE[RM] = 0.0387) -50.62 -14.74 11.78 -0.16 0.35 2.31
•ρ= 3,83% (Cost of equity withρf = 0.01,βj = 0.0073
andE[RM] = 0.0387) -51.40 -14.98 11.88 -0.16 0.36 2.37
Figure 12 represents such a dynamic, with a focus on the changed creditworthiness and
NPVs of analysed firms, as a function of an increased severity of the transition, namely a con-
tinuous delay of the introduction of climate action (shock year Z). While a shock year of 2025
represents the earliest feasible transition, given that firms follow their own production plans
based on the data by Asset Resolution. These results point to a simple message - a disorderly
transition is costly, and gets more costly the longer we wait. At the same time we observe that
even an early transition in 2025 is likely to entail significant economic and financial costs as a
large share of the analysed firms remain to be misaligned with the targets set out in the Paris
Agreement.
46

===== PAGE 47 =====

Figure 12: NPV and PD changes by introduction of climate action. EXPAND
Interestingly, our result show a significant variability due to different cost projections (be-
tween the IEA and (Way et al., 2021)). The mean transition-related impact on the firms valu-
ation varies between -6% and nearly 14%, while we see less variability in the transition-related
PD changes. 32. The most striking result are the differences in the TRISK outcome based on
different target scenarios s = target. We see a large variation in the results. In the (Way et
al., 2021) production scenarios, some firms are significantly positively affected (in the 95 th per-
centile up to 121%) while the worst performing firms receive a significant negative shock that is
higher in magnitude compared to scenarios by the NGFS And the IEA. Such an increase in the
standard deviation of our results highlights the importance of different scenario narratives and
further points to the fact that transition shocks entail a large heterogeneity across firms. The
same interpretation holds true for the sensitivity of the TRISK outcomes on financial portfolios
32This is intuitive, as the cost directly feed into reduced cash flows and only indirectly feature in the credit
risk model
47

===== PAGE 48 =====

(see 6), although to a lesser degree, as the construction of the portfolios focused on two extreme
cases and is not representative of the full sample. We observe expected losses in these portfolios
from transition-related market risk Et[Lmarket] increase from -14% to -26%, when the shock year
is delayed from 2025 to 2035, reflecting a more disruptive transition.
Table 6: Sensitivity analysis of TRISK for sample Portfolio A and B, expressed as expected
loss from transition-related equity and PD changes as share of overall portfolio exposure.
Sample FI Portfolio A Sample FI Portfolio B
Et[Lmarket] Et[Lcredit] Et[Lmarket] Et[Lcredit]
Shock Year,Y (*)
•Y= 2025 -13.67 -0.44 6.70 0.03
•Y= 2030 -17.97 -0.61 7.77 0.03
•Y= 2030 -25.71 -0.93 11.86 0.04
Target Scenario,s(*) •Sustainable Development Scenario IEA (IEA, 2020)-17.97 -0.61 7.77 0.03
•NGFS net-zero scenario (NGFS, 2020) -24.72 -1.43 19.05 0.01
•Oxford Fast Transition Scenario (Way et al., 2021) -23.51 -1.64 62.97 0.03
Unit cost projections,cs,tgyh(*) •Cost projections (Way et al., 2021): Fast Transition-17.84 -0.61 15.28 0.04
•Regional cost projections SDS (IEA, 2020) -17.97 -0.60 7.77 0.03
Discount rate,ρ
•ρ= 7.5% (Average WACC public power firms)-17.84 -0.60 7.74 0.03
•ρ= 4,83% (Cost of equity withρf= 0.02,βj= 0.0073 and
E[RM] = 0.0387) -18.54 -0.64 7.94 0.03
•ρ= 3,83% (Cost of equity withρf= 0.01,βj= 0.0073 and
E[RM] = 0.0387) -18.81 -0.65 8.01 0.03
Maturity of debt instrument,T
•T= 1 -17.97 0.00 7.77 0.00
•T= 3 -17.97 -0.13 7.77 0.00
•T= 5 -17.97 -0.61 7.77 0.03
Loss given default thresholdλ
•λ= 0.45 -17.97 -0.61 7.77 0.02
•λ= 0.25 -17.97 -0.56 7.77 0.03
•λ= 0.65 -17.97 -0.65 7.77 0.04
For the scenario-independent parameters, such as the discount rate, we see some variations
in the results, however the order of magnitude remains robust to changes in these parameters
(T RISK N P V
i mean change from -14.11% to - 14.89% and T RISK P D
i mean change from 0.33
to 0.36 percentage points). We used the average WACC for firms in our sample and the cost
of equity with different average risk premiums. Note that while our model runs are robust
to different discount rates, the choice of discount rate can be a significant source of variation
and noise in the result in other studies, and could be potentially used by financial intuitions to
mask regulatory stress test results in their favor. More transparency around the choice of such
parameters is therefore highly desirable, especially in the context of climate stress testing and
scenario analysis, where longer time horizons and the involved complexities of the model place
inevitably greater emphasise on these parameters. Reflecting the robustness of our results, we
identify that the model is less sensitive to other scenario-independent parameters, such as the
loss given default threshold on the financial layer of the ACST. However, we see a non-negligible
variation in the results of the relative impact to the credit expected losses of our constructed
portfolios, due to the maturity parameter for outstanding debt. This is initiative, as expected
48

===== PAGE 49 =====

loss for short-term debt will be less impacted, given the longer time-horizon and shock year
introduction in the ACST.
Table 7: Sensitivity analysis of Stranded Assets and resulting loss given default (for λ = 0.45)
for different carbon budgets (in %)
Stranded Assets SAj Loss given default LGDj
5thpercentile Mean 95thpercentile 5thprecentile Mean 95thpercentile
Global Carbon Budget
•1.5°Degree Target (466 Gt/CO2) 0 36.04 71.43 45 64.82 84.29
•2°Degree Target (762 Gt/CO2) 0 15.40 50.31 45 53.46 62.67
•3°Degree Target (2082 Gt/CO2) 0 0.7 0 45 45 45
Table 7 further shows the sensitivity of the loss given default (LGD) based on different
carbon budgets that influence the share of stranded assets. While under a 1.5 ° carbon budget
of 466 Gt/CO 2 the average share of stranded assets for our firm sample amounts to 36% of
production incompatible with the target, this share decreases to around 15% and 0.7% in a 2 °
and 3° degrees target respectively. This points to the fact that most of the firms production in
electricity generation is not compatible with targets set out in the Paris agreement, and may
significantly influence the collateral value of underlying physical production infrastructure.
Overall, this sensitivity analysis highlights two important features of climate stress tests.
First, different scenario narratives around technological change, the future energy mix to meet
net-zero targets and the degree of disruption of the transition, lead to a significant variability in
the TRISK results. Such a variability can effectively inform decision-making and the respective
implications on financial risk management. The flexibility of the ACST therefore allows to
test various pathways and manifestations of a delayed transition, reflecting different underlying
assumptions on how the transition could manifest. Second, the results of the ACST are robust
to scenario-independent parameters and therefore less sensitive to calibration problems.
49

===== PAGE 50 =====

5 Conclusion
This paper presented a novel bottom-up climate stress testing framework, that translates climate
transition risks affecting individual firms and economies to shocks affecting financial system.
We highlighted some of the challenges involved with current climate stress testing approaches.
Most importantly, challenges remain to adequately capture the heterogeneity involved in tran-
sition risks to effectively distinguish among climate-laggards. We identified the need for a
forward-looking, transparent, innovative and flexible climate stress testing approach that allows
to overcome some of the analytical challenges involved in reflecting climate transition risk, while
adequately reflecting uncertainties and sensitivities. This is crucial to inform central banks and
supervisors, investors and financial institutions on the materiality of transition risk and to shift
capital flows to accelerate the low-carbon transition while safeguarding financial stability. We
presented such a framework rooted in an micro economic and financial asset-level based ap-
proach, that relies on forward-looking information of firms to derive the transition risk as a
function of the strategic misalignment of firms with Paris-aligned scenarios. As part of this,
we introduce a forward-looking risk measure - TRISK. We present TRISK on two levels. On
the firm level, TRISK is expressed as the difference in the discounted net present value (NPV),
as well as the probability of default (PD) for a firm under a baseline and transition stress sce-
nario. On the financial level, TRISK is expressed as the difference in the expected loss (EL)
of a portfolio under a baseline and stress scenario, hence represent the value at risk from the
uncertain materialisation of a transition stress scenario. Our approach allows to accommodate
for a wide range of scenarios and underlying modelling choices to better represent prevailing
uncertainties and the ability to demonstrate sensitivities in all modelling stages. Key distinctive
analytical features of our approach include the calibration in asset-level data and representation
of the transition risk on the firm-level, representation of the strategic behavior of firms, explicit
representation of technological costs and comparative advantages and a model framework that
allows for the integration of different scenario parameters, a balance between carbon tax and
demand impacts, as well as flexible parametrisation for extensive sensitivity testing. The aim
is to better understand how much confidence is present in the calibration of such approaches
with data and how to use it most effectively.
We performed an exploratory analysis to a set of 135 international power firms. We find
that the transition impact entails significant heterogeneity across individual firms and the fi-
nancial sector with clear distributional consequences, highlighting the need for bottom up stress
tests that can effectively inform financial markets as well as financial policy design by financial
regulators. Further, we find analysed firms are insufficiently aligned with the net zero transi-
tion, highlighting that even in a scenario with early climate action the transition is likely to
be disorderly, stressing the need for immediate action to avoid the build up of climate related
transition risks. In addition, we find a significant variation of TRSIK across different scenario
50

===== PAGE 51 =====

narratives and model parameters, highlighting the elevated levels of variability and uncertainty
of such approaches. We acknowledge the model, data and calibration limitations involved in all
stages of the climate stress testing framework and propose two relevant areas for further research.
Methodological improvements and extension of the modular approach. The asset-
level based climate stress test (ACST) and the TRISK measure just present early stage ap-
proaches that can be subsequently improved, due to its transparency and flexible set up. The
framework can serve as a foundational module that can be extended to physical risk impacts in
order to comprehensively assess the interdependencies and trade-offs between physical and tran-
sition risk, as well as compounding shocks (Baer et al. forthcoming). There is increasing concern
that physical risks such as changes in the frequency and distribution of extreme weather events
pose a systemic threat to the financial system (Giuzio et al., 2019; Mandel et al., 2021). The
ACST can also serve the purpose of comparing and constructing several benchmark scenarios
to assess the fundamental differences in assumptions and compare different stress test outcomes
based on the scenario narrative (Gasparini et al., 2022). What is more, the ACST could be ex-
tended to account for systemic impacts and second-round losses in a financial network approach.
Our climate stress testing framework has insufficiently focused on the interconnectedness and
potential amplification mechanisms within the financial sector that have the potential to ag-
gravate direct climate-financial impacts. While some research has focused on the estimation of
second-round losses within the financial system (Roncoroni et al., 2021), current frameworks
still lack a wider representation of financial sector interdependencies. The model only partially
accounts for the adaptive capacity and technological change on the firm level and could be
expanded to feature endogenous learning rates and positive spillover effects. The complexity of
the climate-adjusted economic model could be increased in this domain to allow for strategic
responses of firms’ investment in sustainable carbon technologies based on technological change
and firms’ behavior in optimising market shares. The ACST could serve as a basis for financial
policy analysis through a counterfactual representation of dynamic balance sheets of financial
institutions to capture behavioral reactions to initial transition shocks. Currently, the model
allows to estimate the transition risk of banks and FIs but does not capture the climate impact
on sovereign bonds. While our model approach allows us to map the geographical impact of
the transition, we have not integrated a module that translates such effects into changes in
sovereign bond spreads.
Empirical Application Improvement. While we showed an exploratory application of the
stress testing framework to a selection of international power firms as a proof of concept, the
application of the model can be significantly improved depending on future data availability
and institutional resources. Especially, more country- and regional specific assessments that
better accommodate jurisdictional differences with respect to carbon budget allowances, net-
zero strategies and political commitment, could significantly improve the practical relevance of
51

===== PAGE 52 =====

such a climate stress testing exercise. The open source nature 33 of the framework allows for a
wide diffusion and application globally. Further, while we restrained the analysis to power firms,
the model can be applied to many climate-critical sectors on which sufficient asset-level data is
available (e.g. Asset Resolution, Oxford Spatial Finance Initiative or World Resource Institute
capture firms and assets in oil and gas, coal extraction, steel, cement, aviation, automotive
and shipping that together account for around 80 % of global carbon emissions. Lastly, we
did not represent individual balance sheets of financial sectors or FIs. This would allow to
assess the TRISK in individual investor, banks or insurance portfolios and further unravel the
distributional effects within the financial network. This makes the ACST a powerful tool for
central banks and supervisors to assess TRSIK on a counterparty-level across a wide range of
parameter and scenario assumptions.
33The code of the ACST can be found on github - https://github.com/2DegreesInvesting/r2dii.climate
.stress.test and is hosted and maintained by 2 °Investing Initiative
52

===== PAGE 53 =====

References
Baer, M., Campiglio, E., & Deyris, J. (2021). It takes two to dance: Institutional dynamics and
climate-related financial policies. Ecological Economics, 190, 107210. Retrieved from
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S092180092100269X doi:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ecolecon.2021.107210
Battiston, S., Mandel, A., Monasterolo, I., Sch¨ utze, F., & Visentin, G. (2017, March). A
climate stress-test of the financial system. Nature Climate Change , 7, 283–288. Re-
trieved 2017-03-28, from http://www.nature.com/nclimate/journal/vaop/ncurrent/
full/nclimate3255.html
Battiston, S., & Monasterolo, I. (2021). On the dependence of investor’s probability of default
on climate transition scenarios. , 25.
BIS. (2021a). Climate-related financial risks - measurement methodologies. , 56.
BIS. (2021b). Climate-related risk drivers and their transmission channels. , 45.
BoE. (2020, June). The Bank of England’s climate-related financial disclosure 2020 (Tech.
Rep.). London: Bank of England.
Bolton, P., Despres, M., Pereira da Silva, L. A., Samama, F., & Svartzman, R. (2020). The
green swan. Central banking and financial stability in the age of climate change. (Tech.
Rep.). Basel: Bank of International Settlements.
Bolton, P., & Kacperczyk, M. (2021). Do Investors Care about Carbon Risk? , 81.
Bressan, G., Duranovic, A., Monasterolo, I., & Battiston, S. (2022). Asset-Level Climate
Physical Risk Assessment and Cascading Financial Losses. SSRN Electronic Journal .
Retrieved 2022-04-21, from https://www.ssrn.com/abstract=4062275 doi: 10.2139/
ssrn.4062275
Chen, S., Ganum, P., Liu, L. Q., Martinez, L., & Martinez Peria, M. (2019, February). Debt
Maturity and the Use of Short-Term Debt: Evidence form Sovereigns and Firms. De-
partmental Papers / Policy Papers , 19(03), 1. Retrieved 2021-10-25, from https://
elibrary.imf.org/view/journals/087/2019/001/087.2019.issue-001-en.xml doi:
10.5089/9781484380536.087
Cormack, C., Donovan, C., Koberle, A., & Ostrovnaya, A. (2020). Estimating Financial Risks
from the Energy Transition: Potential Impacts from Decarbonisation in the European
Power Sector. SSRN Electronic Journal . Retrieved 2022-05-17, from https://www.ssrn
.com/abstract=3598183 doi: 10.2139/ssrn.3598183
Diaz, D., & Moore, F. (2017, November). Quantifying the economic risks of climate change.
Nature Climate Change , 7(11), 774–782. doi: 10.1038/nclimate3411
ECB. (2020, November). ECB publishes final guide on climate-related and environmental risks
for banks. Retrieved 2021-01-12, from https://www.bankingsupervision.europa.eu/
press/pr/date/2020/html/ssm.pr201127~5642b6e68d.en.html
ECB. (2021, October). Climate risk stress test: SSM stress test 2022 (Tech. Rep.). European
53

===== PAGE 54 =====

Central Bank.
ECB. (2021). ECB economy-wide climate stress test: methodology and results (Vol. Occasional
Paper Series). LU: Publications Office. Retrieved 2021-10-28, from https://data.europa
.eu/doi/10.2866/460490
Errickson, F. C., Keller, K., Collins, W. D., Srikrishnan, V., & Anthoff, D. (2021, April).
Equity is more important for the social cost of methane than climate uncertainty. Nature,
592(7855), 564–570. Retrieved from https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-021-03386-6
doi: 10.1038/s41586-021-03386-6
ESRB. (2020, June). Positively green: measuring climate change risks to financial stability.
Report. European Systemic Risk Board , 56.
EU HLEG. (2018). Financing a sustainable European economy (Tech. Rep.). Brussels: EU
High-Level Expert Group on Sustainable Finance.
European Commission. (2018). Action Plan: Financing Sustainable Growth (Communication
from the Commission No. COM/2018/097). Brussels.
Fankhauser, S., Smith, S. M., Allen, M., Axelsson, K., Hale, T., Hepburn, C., . . . Wetzer,
T. (2022, January). The meaning of net zero and how to get it right. Nature Climate
Change, 12(1), 15–21. Retrieved 2022-02-28, from https://www.nature.com/articles/
s41558-021-01245-w doi: 10.1038/s41558-021-01245-w
Farmer, J. D., Kleinnijenhuis, A. M., Nahai-Williamson, P., & Wetzer, T. (2020). Foundations of
System-Wide Financial Stress Testing with Heterogeneous Institutions. SSRN Electronic
Journal. Retrieved 2021-03-29, from https://www.ssrn.com/abstract=3601846 doi:
10.2139/ssrn.3601846
FI, U. (2018, April). Extending our Horizon - Assessing credit risk and opportunity in a changing
climate: Outputs of a working group of 16 banks piloting the TCFD Recommendations
(Tech. Rep.). UNEP Finance Initative.
Gasparini, M., Baer, M., & Ives, M. C. (2022). Is climate stress testing accounting for scenario
uncertainty right? Working paper No 2-2022 , Environemtal Stress Testing and Scenarios
Programme (ESTS), Oxford Sustainable Finance Group, University of Oxford .
Giglio, S., Kelly, B. T., & Stroebel, J. (2020, December).Climate Finance (Tech. Rep.). National
Bureau of Economic Research, Inc. Retrieved from https://EconPapers.repec.org/
RePEc:nbr:nberwo:28226 (Issue: 28226)
Hallegatte, S., & Hammer, S. (2020). Thinking ahead: for a sustainable recovery from COVID-
19. World Bank Blogs. Available at .
Hallegatte, S., & Rozenberg, J. (2017, April). Climate change through a poverty lens. Nature
Climate Change , 7, 250–256. doi: 10.1038/nclimate3253
Hepburn, C., O’Callaghan, B., Stern, N., & Zenghelis, D. (2020). Will COVID-19 fiscal re-
covery packages accelerate or retard progress on climate change? Oxford Smith School of
Enterprise and the Environment | Working Paper No. 20-02 ISSN 2732-4214 , 48.
Hoepner, A., Oikonomou, I., Scholtens, B., & Schr¨ oder, M. (2016). The Effects of Corporate
54

===== PAGE 55 =====

and Country Sustainability Characteristics on The Cost of Debt: An International In-
vestigation. Journal of Business Finance & Accounting , 43(1-2), 158–190. Retrieved
from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/jbfa.12183 ( eprint:
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1111/jbfa.12183) doi: https://doi.org/10
.1111/jbfa.12183
IEA. (2020). World Energy Outlook 2020. , 464.
Jung, H., Engle, R. F., & Berner, R. (2021). Climate Stress Testing. SSRN Electronic Journal .
Retrieved 2022-04-21, from https://www.ssrn.com/abstract=3931516 doi: 10.2139/
ssrn.3931516
Krueger, P., Sautner, Z., & Starks, L. T. (2020, March). The Importance of Climate Risks for
Institutional Investors. The Review of Financial Studies , 33(3), 1067–1111. Retrieved
2022-04-21, from https://doi.org/10.1093/rfs/hhz137 doi: 10.1093/rfs/hhz137
Lontzek, T. S., Cai, Y., Judd, K. L., & Lenton, T. M. (2015). Stochastic integrated assessment
of climate tipping points indicates the need for strict climate policy. Nature Climate
Change, 5(5), 441–444. Retrieved from https://EconPapers.repec.org/RePEc:nat:
natcli:v:5:y:2015:i:5:d:10.1038 nclimate2570
MAS. (2020, June). Consultation Paper on Proposed Guidelines on Environmental Risk Man-
agement for Banks (Consultation paper). Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS).
Mercure, J.-F., Knobloch, F., Pollitt, H., Paroussos, L., Scrieciu, S. S., & Lewney, R. (2019,
September). Modelling innovation and the macroeconomics of low-carbon transitions: the-
ory, perspectives and practical use. Climate Policy , 19(8), 1019–1037. Retrieved 2021-02-
01, from https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/14693062.2019.1617665
doi: 10.1080/14693062.2019.1617665
Mercure, J.-F., Salas, P., Vercoulen, P., Semieniuk, G., Lam, A., Pollitt, H., . . . Vinuales,
J. E. (2021, December). Reframing incentives for climate policy action. Nature Energy,
6(12), 1133–1143. Retrieved from https://doi.org/10.1038/s41560-021-00934-2 doi:
10.1038/s41560-021-00934-2
Merton, R. C. (1974). On the Pricing of Corporate Debt: The Risk Structure of Interest
Rates. The Journal of Finance , 29(2), 449–470. Retrieved 2021-10-25, from http://
www.jstor.org/stable/2978814 (Publisher: [American Finance Association, Wiley])
doi: 10.2307/2978814
Neuhoff, K., & Ritz, R. (n.d.). Carbon cost pass-through in industrial sectors. Cambridge
Working Papers in Economics . doi: https://doi.org/10.17863/CAM.46544
NGFS. (2019, July). Macroeconomic and financial stability Implications of climate change -
Technical supplement to the First comprehensive report (Tech. Rep.).
NGFS. (2020). Guide to climate scenario analysis for central banks and supervisors (Technical
document). Network for Greening the Financial System.
NGFS. (2020). NGFS Climate Scenarios for central banks and supervisors (Tech. Rep.). Net-
work for Greening the Financial System.
55

===== PAGE 56 =====

NGFS. (2020). Progress report on the implementation of sustainable and responsible investment
practices in central banks’ portfolio management (Tech. Rep.). Network for Greening
the Financial System. Retrieved from https://www.ngfs.net/sites/default/files/
medias/documents/sri progress report 2020.pdf
NGFS. (2021). Progress report on bridging the data gaps. Network for Greening the Financial
System - technical report , 52.
Nguyen, Q., Diaz-Rainey, I., Kuruppuarachchi, D., McCarten, M., & Tan, E. K. M. (2020).
Climate Transition Risk in U.S. Loan Portfolios: Are All Banks the Same? SSRN Elec-
tronic Journal . Retrieved 2022-04-21, from https://www.ssrn.com/abstract=3766592
doi: 10.2139/ssrn.3766592
Nordhaus, W. D. (2007, January). To Tax or Not to Tax: Alternative Approaches to
Slowing Global Warming. Review of Environmental Economics and Policy , 1(1), 26–
44. Retrieved 2019-12-11, from https://academic.oup.com/reep/article-lookup/
doi/10.1093/reep/rem008 doi: 10.1093/reep/rem008
Nordhaus, W. D. (2017, February). Revisiting the social cost of carbon. Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences , 114(7), 1518–1523. Retrieved 2022-02-08, from http://
www.pnas.org/lookup/doi/10.1073/pnas.1609244114 doi: 10.1073/pnas.1609244114
of England, B. (2021). Discussion Paper: The 2021 biennial exploratory scenario on the financial
risks from climate change. Discussion Paper , 33.
OxSFP. (2018, July). Climate risk analysis from space: remote sensing, machine learning, and
the future of measuring climate-related risk (Tech. Rep.). Oxford Sustainable Finance
Program.
Pindyck, R. S. (2017, January). The Use and Misuse of Models for Climate Policy. Review
of Environmental Economics and Policy , 11(1), 100–114. Retrieved 2022-04-21, from
https://doi.org/10.1093/reep/rew012 (Publisher: The University of Chicago Press)
doi: 10.1093/reep/rew012
PRA. (2019). Supervisory Statement SS3/19 - Enhancing Banks’ and Insurers’ Approaches
to Managing the Financial Risks from Climate Change. Bank of England Pruden-
tial Regulation Authority. Retrieved from https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/
-/media/boe/files/prudential-regulation/supervisory-statement/2019/
ss319.pdf?la=en&hash=7BA9824BAC5FB313F42C00889D4E3A6104881C44.
Reinders, H. J., Schoenmaker, D., & Van Dijk, M. A. (2020). A Finance Approach to Climate
Stress Testing. SSRN Electronic Journal . Retrieved 2022-04-21, from https://www.ssrn
.com/abstract=3573107 doi: 10.2139/ssrn.3573107
Ripple, W. J., Wolf, C., Newsome, T. M., Barnard, P., & Moomaw, W. R. (2020, Jan-
uary). World Scientists’ Warning of a Climate Emergency. BioScience, 70(1), 8–12.
Retrieved 2021-03-04, from https://doi.org/10.1093/biosci/biz088 doi: 10.1093/
biosci/biz088
Rising, J., Dietz, S., Stoerk, T., & Wagner, G. (2020, May). Tipping Points in the Climate
56

===== PAGE 57 =====

System and the Economics of Climate Change. In EGU General Assembly Conference
Abstracts (p. 2959). doi: 10.5194/egusphere-egu2020-2959
Semieniuk, G., Campiglio, E., Mercure, J.-F., Volz, U., & Edwards, N. R. (2021). Low-
carbon transition risks for finance. WIREs Climate Change , 12(1), e678. Retrieved 2020-
12-18, from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/wcc.678 ( eprint:
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/wcc.678) doi: https://doi.org/10.1002/
wcc.678
Stern, N. (2007). The Economics of Climate Change: The Stern Review . Cambridge:
Cambridge University Press. Retrieved from https://www.cambridge.org/core/books/
economics-of-climate-change/A1E0BBF2F0ED8E2E4142A9C878052204 doi: 10.1017/
CBO9780511817434
Stolbova, V., Monasterolo, I., & Battiston, S. (2018, July). A Financial Macro-
Network Approach to Climate Policy Evaluation. Ecological Economics , 149, 239–
253. Retrieved 2019-11-08, from https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/
S0921800917314192 doi: 10.1016/j.ecolecon.2018.03.013
Sundaresan, S. (2013). A Review of Merton’s Model of the Firm’s Capital Structure with its
Wide Applications. , 21.
TCFD. (2017). Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(Tech. Rep.). Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures.
Vermeulen, R., Schets, E., Lohuis, M., K¨ olbl, B., Jansen, D.-J., & Heeringa, W. (2019). The
Heat is on: A framework for measuring financial stress under disruptive energy transition
scenarios (Tech. Rep.). Amsterdam: De Nederlandsche Bank.
Way, R., Ives, M. C., Mealy, P., & Farmer, J. D. (2021). Empirically grounded technology
forecasts and the energy transition. , 23.
Weitzman, M. L. (2009, February). On Modeling and Interpreting the Economics of Catas-
trophic Climate Change. Review of Economics and Statistics , 91(1), 1–19. Retrieved
2019-11-04, from http://www.mitpressjournals.org/doi/10.1162/rest.91.1.1 doi:
10.1162/rest.91.1.1
57

===== PAGE 58 =====

A Appendix
A.1 Model Parameter Overview
58

===== PAGE 59 =====

Table 8: Model parameters, subscripts and calibration
Variable Name Baseline Calibration
P Production levels AR Production data: h−1(y) : GJ/year→GW
p market price per technology h IEA projections [2020,2040]
c Unit cost of production IEA and Way et al. (2020) LCOE projections [2020,2040]
ψ level of carbon tax NGFS trajectory in Dollars per tonne of CO 2($/tCO2)
η technology market shareeta∈[0,1] AR data computed: Ps,tayh
Ps,tgyh
R Real Economy R ∈ R
Aj Firm Assets ?
Lj Firm Liabilities total outstanding debt, Eikon refinitiv data
χ emission levels Tonnes of CO 2(tCO2)
ϵ emission intensity in tonnes of CO2 χ/Pj
ρ discount rate ρj =ρf+βjE[RM]
ω Carbon tax elasticityω= [0,1] 0.5
ν profit margin
B Carbon budget 450 Gt/CO 2
v Type of financial instrument v∈[equity, bond, loan]
E Equity Ex,tj =As,tj −Ls,tj
PD Probability of Default
LGD Loss Given Default λ+ (1−λ)SAj
λ LGD threshold λ∈[0,1]
N cumulative standard normal distribution
σ volatility of asset EIKON data
βtj firm dividend rate βtj ∈[0,1]
T maturity of financial instrument (in years)
Sj Stranded Assets, production incompatible with carbon budgetB
s Scenario s = [baseline, target and stress]
t time [t, T]
h Technology h ∈ H
y Sector y ∈ Y
g Geographical region g∈ G= [global, regional]
a Physical Production Asset a ∈ A
c country
i Financial Institution Portfolio data, constructed
j Firm AR data
59

===== PAGE 60 =====

Table 9: Firm and Asset Coverage
Sector Number of Assets Number of Firms HQ countries Share of global production (in %)34 Countries with Assets
Power8025 135 29 29,7 92
A.2 Data and additional analysis
34Based on a global production in 2021 of 27.520 TW/h. Total Production of firm sample 8.181 TW/h.
60

===== PAGE 61 =====

Table 10: Sector Description
Sector Segment Production unit Emission intensity scope Technology and Business Unit Type
Power Power Generation Installed capcity (MW)35 Scope 1 Electricity generated from oil, gas, coal, nuclear, hydro and renewables
Table 11: Descriptive statistics of key parameters for firm sample. Based on empirical cali-
bration and baseline settings (in %)
5th Percentile Mean Median 95th Percentile
Net profit margin, νi 1.44 11.87 10.76 23.87
Stranded Assets, S i 0 36.04 41.23 71.43
Loss given default, LGD j 45 64.82 67.67 84.29
35We transform installed capacity into power generation by applying regional capacity factors from (IEA, 2020):
h−1(y) : MW/year → MW/h
61

===== PAGE 62 =====

Figure 13: Top 100 firm profit margin
62

===== PAGE 63 =====

Figure 14: Debt-to-Equity Ratio and Net Profit Margin for Top 100 Firms
63

===== PAGE 64 =====

Figure 15: Stranded Assets and resulting LGD with 1.5 ° Carbon Budget
Figure 15 shows the calibration of firms’ loss given default values (LGD) on outstanding
debt to assess their credit risk on a counterparty level.
64

===== PAGE 65 =====

Figure 16: Debt-to-Equity Ratio and observed PDs for Top 100 Firms
65

===== PAGE 66 =====

Figure 17: Firms Country of Domicile
66

===== PAGE 67 =====

Figure 18: Firms Asset Location across Geographies
67